#This file was created by <skk> Thu Apr 30 17:28:55 1998
#LyX 0.12 (C) 1995-1998 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage widemarginsa4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Section

Secondary board functions
\layout Standard

These functions provide the interface to the secondary board.
\layout Subsection

The Dallas ring reader
\layout Standard

Two functions and a structure are provided to access information on the
 ring.
 The structure is defined as follows:
\layout LyX-Code

typedef struct
\layout LyX-Code

{
\layout LyX-Code


\protected_separator 
 unsigned char product;
\layout LyX-Code


\protected_separator 
 unsigned char id [6];
\layout LyX-Code


\protected_separator 
 unsigned char crc;
\layout LyX-Code

} ringinfo;
\layout Standard

The functions are:
\layout Itemize

int checkring (void) --- returns 1 if a ring is present, 0 otherwise;
\layout Itemize

ringinfo * getringinfo (void) --- retrieves the ring's information and places
 it in a structure.
\layout Subsection

The keypad
\layout Standard

Two functions are provided:
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
int checkkeypad (void)
\family default 
 --- returns 1 if a key is being pressed, 0 otherwise;
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
unsigned char getkeypad (void)
\family default 
 --- returns the value of the key being pressed; this is an integer between
 0 and 12, 0--9 corresponding to the digits 0--9, 
\family typewriter 
KP_STAR
\family default 
 to the star symbol, 
\family typewriter 
KP_HASH
\family default 
 to the hash symbol, and 
\family typewriter 
KP_DOORBELL
\family default 
 to the doorbell.
\layout Standard

Note that initially one of the auxiliary keys (star or hash) may be used
 instead of an actual doorbell.
\layout Subsection

The ADC and DAC
\layout Standard

Two functions are provided:
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
unsigned char getsample (void)
\family default 
 --- returns the current sample from the ADC;
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
void setsample (unsigned char)
\family default 
 --- sends a sample to the DAC.
\layout Subsection

The NVRAM and RTC
\layout Standard

The following structure stores time information:
\layout LyX-Code

typedef struct
\layout LyX-Code

{
\layout LyX-Code


\protected_separator 
 unsigned char seconds;
\layout LyX-Code


\protected_separator 
 unsigned char minutes;
\layout LyX-Code


\protected_separator 
 unsigned char hours;
\layout LyX-Code


\protected_separator 
 unsigned char day;
\layout LyX-Code


\protected_separator 
 unsigned char date;
\layout LyX-Code


\protected_separator 
 unsigned char month;
\layout LyX-Code


\protected_separator 
 unsigned char year;
\layout LyX-Code

} rtctime;
\layout Standard

Their precise meaning (with regard for example to the 
\family typewriter 
year
\family default 
 field) is up to the programmer, but the values stored in the RTC will be
 updated automatically.
\layout Standard

The following functions access the RTC:
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
rtctime getrtctime (void)
\family default 
 --- retrieves the current time from the RTC;
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
void setrtctime (rtctime)
\family default 
 --- stores new data in the RTC.
\layout Standard

The programmer can use 760 bytes in NVRAM, and these are accessed using
 the following functions:
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
unsigned char * getnvram (int, int)
\family default 
 --- returns the data stored in the given range;
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
void setnvram (unsigned char *, int, int)
\family default 
 --- stores the data in the given range.
\layout Standard

The range is specified as going from the first integer argument to the second,
 inclusive; so for example 
\family typewriter 
setnvram (&data, 0, 759)
\family default 
 would fill the whole NVRAM.
\layout Subsection

The LED display
\layout Standard

The 7-segment LED display on the IDP can be accessed using the 
\family typewriter 
void leddisplay (int)
\family default 
 function, which display the given hexadecimal digit or blanks the LED if
 -1 is given as an argument.
\layout Subsection

The door
\layout Standard

The door lock's status can be verified and changed using:
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
int getdoorstatus (void)
\family default 
 --- returns 0 if the door is closed, 1 if it's open;
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
int opendoor (void)
\family default 
 --- opens the door, returning 0 in case of success, -1 in case of failure.
\layout Subsection

The jiffies counter
\layout Standard

A global variable, defined as
\layout LyX-Code

unsigned int jiffies
\layout Standard

is updated every ????, using the UART's counter.
 This can be used as a precise measure of elapsed time.
\the_end
