#This file was created by <skk> Fri May  1 17:11:20 1998
#LyX 0.12 (C) 1995-1998 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Section

The user interface
\layout Subsection

Design
\layout Standard

The user interface runs on a Linux PC running the X Windows user interface,
 and had been predominently constructed using the GTK+ toolkit in the C
 programming language.
 It is contained in a binary file together with all other non-continuous
 modules such as video and audio.
 The UI is launched by the deamon on receiving a message from the Motorola
 board.
\layout Standard

\begin_float fig 
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 226 198
file gui_grab.ps
width 1 8
height 1 7
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Caption


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{screenshot1}

\end_inset 

Screenshot of prototype GUI
\end_float 
\layout Standard

The main window is shown in fig 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{screenshot1}

\end_inset 

, page 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \pageref{screenshot1}

\end_inset 

.
 If this window is minimised it will be activated whenever someone comes
 to the door.
 Normally the video frames will be updated approximately once every second
 and there will be no audio.
 When someone presses the buzzer and the PC user reacts, two way sound transmiss
ion will begin and continue until a (long) timeout expires, or the person
 is accepted or rejected.
 The functions of the various buttons are as follows:
\layout Itemize

recapture --- pressing this button transmits a request to the Motorola board
 to recapture a frame of video;
\layout Itemize

unlock --- this causes the door to unlock;
\layout Itemize

refuse --- this denies entry;
\layout Itemize

audio --- this loads an audio configuration program (mixer);
\layout Itemize

close --- this closes the interface window.
\layout Subsection

Interface
\layout Standard

Although video, audio and GUI modules are contained in one binary, the GUI
 runs as a separate process, using 
\family typewriter 
fork
\family default 
.
 It communicates with the video decompresion module using OS signals.
 This allows a message to be sent when a frame has been decompressed.
 The actual data to be passed to the GUI is stored in memory shared between
 the two processes.
 The only other external interface is to the serial transport, in order
 to send messages to the board (ie.
 unlock door).
\the_end
