#This file was created by <iic> Fri May  1 10:12:39 1998
#LyX 0.12 (C) 1995-1998 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Subsection

Specification of Video Compression and Decompression
\layout Subsubsection

Format of image as received from video camera
\layout Standard

The image returned from the camera is an array of 19200 bytes.
 Each of these characters is a value between 0 and 15 (therefore only the
 lower 4 bits of each byte are used).
 Each byte represents one pixel of the image.
 0 represents black and 15 represents white, intermediate values represent
 grey values increasing in lightness as their value increases.
 The first 160 bytes represent the first horizontal line of the image, and
 subsequent sub-arrays of 160 bytes represent subsequent lines of the image.
\layout Subsubsection

Compression algorithm
\layout Standard

With the exception of the first frame a logical XOR is performed between
 the current frame and the previous frame.
 The result of this is that pixels of the image which remain constant between
 the two frames become black.
\layout Standard

The resulting frame difference image is then scanned using a Run Length
 Encoding (RLE) algorithm prior to transmission.
\layout Subsubsection

Format of Run Length Encoded data
\layout Standard
\noindent 
The Run Length Encoded file should be treated as a stream of 5 bit blocks.
 
\layout Standard

The first bit of the block determines it's nature.
 If the first bit is 0 then the subsequent 4 bits represent the colourof
 an individual pixel.
 If the first bit is 1 then the subsequent 4 pixels represent the colour
 of a pixel, and the subsequent block represents the number of pixels of
 that colour - 2.
\the_end
