#This file was created by <imt> Thu Apr 30 17:12:28 1998
#LyX 0.12 (C) 1995-1998 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Feasibility study of a PC - based door entry system
\layout Author

CS3 Group Seven 
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 128 125
file ../web/images/EUcrest-official-noborder.ps
flags 11

\end_inset 


\layout Standard
\pagebreak_top 

\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \printindex

\end_inset 


\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Introduction
\layout Standard

Ding Dong Doorentry Systems Ltd has commissioned our group to develop an
 idea for a new product.
 Their business has so far been based on selling simple but supposedly vandal-pr
oof door entry systems for stair doors.
 Their new idea involves branching out into high - specification door- entry
 systems, and in particular, taking advantage of the fact that most small
 companies and may homes now have a PC inside them.
 Since PC's already incorporate a screen and sound facilities, the intention
 is to sell a door-entry system that allows a person within the premises
 to use a PC to view the person at the door which interfaces to the PC via
 a serial port.
 This unit would be sold together with the necessary PC software .
\layout Standard

Since all PC's have serial ports, Ding Dong's idea is to produce a unit
 to be sited by the door which interfaces to the PC via a serial port.
 This unit would be sold together with the necessary PC software.
\layout Standard

Ding Dong would also like to offer the facility of having the PC contol
 control entry automatically (ie without a person being present at the PC)
 and suggest this could be done by operating the door with a combination
 of some kind of personal card or key, and a PIN number.
\layout Standard

We have been commissioned to produce, rapidly and inexpensively a demonstration
 prototype.
 We have have to refine its vague specification for the product , decide
 on the best way to provide the facilities that Ding Dong wants to see,
 and to develop additional features that might increase the product's marketabil
ity.
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Market Research
\layout Standard

The design specification identified two markets for the product.
 We carried out a survey to gauge the degree of practicality and interest
 in producing a product for these markets.
 The results are separated into Residential and Commercial Properties
\layout Subsection

Residential Properties
\layout Standard

We carried out an informal survey of 127 residents in and around Marchmont.
 The accommodation in this area mostly comprises of flats.
 The majority of people living in this area are between 20-35 years old.
 They were al ltold the idea of the product before the questions were asked.
 Anybody who answered no to any question, was excluded from the rest of
 the survey.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center \LyXTable
multicol4
4 3 0 0 -1 -1 -1 -1
1 1 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 1 0 0
8 1 0 
8 1 0 
8 1 1 
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0

Residential
\newline 
YES
\newline 
NO
\newline 
Do you have a PC in you Household?
\newline 
42
\newline 
85
\newline 
Do you have some form of door entry system?
\newline 
35
\newline 
7
\newline 
Would you be interested in combining the PC with a door entry system?
\newline 
6
\newline 
29
\layout Standard

Our survey indicates that only 17% of the people who had a PC and a door
 entry system would be interested in a product that combined the two.
 Although the market demand currently is low; the demand in future may rise.
 We identified the main residential markets to assess their likely future
 demands.
\layout Subsubsection

Blocks of Flats 
\layout Standard

The increase of PC's in the home may allow this product to become an alternative
 to the standard door-entry system.
 According to a representative of Castle Security (a local security company)
 the system would face the problem of convincing sections of the population
 of its value.
 Their will always be a percentage who will be resistant to new technology,
 and a section who will resist having to pay for a new technology.
 
\layout Subsubsection

Accommodation with a servitor
\layout Standard

The servitors office would contain the PC and during the day people could
 be let in by visual identification only.
 During the night a form of security could be set for the main entrances.
 The potential here is for accommodation similar to halls of residence.
 
\layout Standard

A spokesmen for Pollock halls of residence was enthusiastic about the system,
 the individual halls all have offices next to the only entrance, all the
 offices also contain PC's that are unused overnight.
 The system would be beneficial in enabling only residents to enter their
 building after the site has been locked.
 The also suggested an application for the front gate of the halls were
 they use visual identification to let cars in.
 It would be cheaper to run the system automatically than to hire doormen.
\layout Subsubsection

Semi / Detached Property
\layout Standard

Presently these properties have little or no door entry system; convincing
 them to purchase an audio/visual system would mean convining them that
 they need some form of access control.
 
\layout Standard

The biggest market in this area would be properties sited within large grounds
 ie.
 estate houses, which can have entrances that are set a significant distance
 away from the property.
 These properties could use the improved security of visual communication.
 
\layout Subsubsection

Conclusion
\layout Standard

Examining th residential user group, their needs and their response to our
 proposed design it is clear that although there is enthusiasm from some
 parts of the market, Pollock halls, most others currently have no need
 or desire to own this product.
 The majority of people are quite happy with their present system.
\layout Subsection

Commercial
\layout Standard

We carried out an informal survey of fourteen small to medium size commercial
 properties..
 The business' comprised of a lawyers firm to a Dental surgery.
 They were all explained the initial design specification before the questions
 were asked.
 Anybody who answered no to any question, was excluded from the rest of
 the survey.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center \LyXTable
multicol4
4 3 0 0 -1 -1 -1 -1
1 1 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 1 0 0
8 1 0 
8 1 0 
8 1 1 
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0

Commercial
\newline 
YES
\newline 
NO
\newline 
Does your office contain a PC?
\newline 
15
\newline 
0
\newline 
Do you have some form of door entry system?
\newline 
14
\newline 
1
\newline 
Would you be interested in combining the PC with a door entry system?
\newline 
8
\newline 
6
\layout Standard

Our survey indicates that 57% of the companies who had a PC and a door entry
 system would be interested in a product that combined the two.
 Specific commercial targets were then identified so that we could determine
 a business strategy.
\layout Subsubsection

Education
\layout Standard

Enabling schools to place this system at their entry points would allow
 them to limit unauthorized visitor movement.
 Allowing the children and the teachers to have their own entry device would
 allow them to have authorized access to the school.
 Anyone else would require to identify themselves using the audio/visual
 communication.
 Outside of school times the site would be closed to all but those with
 security access.
 
\layout Subsubsection

NHS 
\layout Standard

The system would be integrated to the front doors of wards that demand security
 eg maternity wards.
 Visitors would only be able to enter these areas if they have a specific
 reason to be there.
 The problem with existing NHS security include
\layout Itemize

security being lax because no-one monitors the video cameras.
\layout Itemize

security is bypassed by people who pretend to be some one else
\layout Standard

The system would have to be reliable and easy to use as there may be emergency
 situations when time is critical,specifically a cardiac arrest alert needs
 a Doctor to get to the patient as soon a possible.
 Therefore the system will involve Doctors needing instant access to wards,
 whilst there is still a level of security that will satisfy parents.
\layout Subsubsection

Small/large business
\layout Standard

The system would work as stated in the design specification.
\layout Subsubsection

Conclusion
\layout Standard

Examining the commercial user group, their needs and their response to our
 proposed design it is clear that there is enthusiasm from the majority
 of this market.
 Our decision will be wether to design the product for a general Commercial
 group or wether we should concentrate on a specific user group.
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Product Strategy
\layout Standard

Three points influenced our decision to aim the product at a specific niche
 market.
\layout Subsection

Government Legislation 
\layout Standard

In the wake of the bombing of the Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City,
 the Justice Department reviewed security at federal facilities around the
 country.
 The review resulted in some 8,500 countermeasures now being implemented
 by the General Services Administration (GSA).
 A significant number of which concern visitor access to sites.
\layout Subsection

Worries About School Security
\layout Standard

In light of the Cullen Inquiry into the Dunblane report Lord Cullen stated
\layout Quotation

It is recognized that there should be arrangements for security to prevent
 unauthorized access to the school.
\layout Standard

The national union of teachers stated that 
\layout Quotation

EVERY school in Britain should be redesigned so that they have only one
 entrance 
\layout Standard

Which was first recommended by Lord Elton in his 1989 inquiry into school
 security.
 The Manchester branch called for 
\layout Quotation

legislation which will ensure that each school invests in adequate and appropria
te safety and surveillance systems to protect staff and deter intruders.
\layout Subsubsection

Case Study
\layout Quotation

Several schools have suffered devastating arson attacks.
 Millions have had to be spent on refurbishment or rebuilding, simply because
 arsonists could walk on to school premises at will.
\layout Quotation

Then there is theft.
 It is quite common for thieves to wander into school in search of easy
 pickings during the working day.
 One school had people and property protected by a security guard with an
 Alsatian during parents' evenings.
\layout Quotation

The tragic deaths of Philip Lawrence, the head teacher who died protecting
 a pupil, and of Nicky Conroy, the schoolgirl shot dead while quietly at
 work in a school classroom, should have focused attention on the problem
 of how to keep undesirable away from schools.
 
\layout Quotation

One week prior to the government report into school security.
 The deranged Thomas Hamilton ran amok and killed 16 infants and a teacher
 at Dunblane in March 1996.
\layout Quotation

The Times (Friday, 24 May 1996)
\layout Subsubsection

Interview with Mr N McLeod (Assistant Head Teacher of Stornoway Primary
 School)
\layout Standard

Stornoway Primary has a roll of approximately 420.
 All the classes are contained in one complex, and the site is self contained.
 There are seven entrences, one for each year of the school, and two main
 entrences for visitors and teachers etc.
\layout Standard

Is There any problem with security at the school?
\layout Quotation


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

The main problem we have is the rise of vandalism at the weekends, the breaking
 of school windows and the setting a light of dustbins, costs the school
 approximately £10,000 per annum
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

What measures does the school have In tackling security issues?
\layout Quotation


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

During the day the school is open to anyone; at night the entrances are
 all locked and the police make regular patrols to discourage the vandals.
 By the autumn the school will be connected up to Stornoway's CCTV system.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Does the school have a budget for security?
\layout Quotation


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

No, we use part of our building allowance to pay for any security needs.
 In the past this has meant buying better security for the windows on the
 ground floor.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Is there more Pressure on schools in light of the Dunblane Incident?
\layout Quotation


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

In the immediate aftermath, there was a degree of anxiety from parents,
 I think it has made the more aware that schools can find it hard to properly
 look after every individual pupil.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Subsection

Maternity Wards
\layout Standard

Over recent years a number of baby's have been snatched from hospitals
\layout Quotation

A BABY girl was snatched from her cot in a hospital maternity unit yesterday
 three hours after being born, in front of her drowsing mother who lay in
 an adjacent bed recovering from a Caesarian section.
\layout Quotation

Kali Hawthorne was grabbed by a blonde-haired woman who walked into the
 ward as the baby's father was telephoning relatives from a nearby corridor
 to tell them of the birth ...
 The abduction again raised major questions about security in hospital maternity
 wards which was supposed to have been increased following the abduction
 of four-hour-old Abbie Humphreys from the Queen's Medical Center, Nottingham,
 in July 1994.
 
\layout Verse

The Daily Telegraph (6th Decembers 1997)
\layout Subsubsection

An interview with Brian Liddle(Chairman of the Western Isles Health Board)
\layout Standard

Ospadal Nan Eileen is the only major hospital in the Western Isles.
 They facility has to cater for a Population of 45,000.
 The facilities include the only Maternity, Surgery and Emergency facilities
 on the Island.
\layout Standard

What security Measures do you have in place?
\layout Quotation


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

At present the hospital has closed circuit television cameras a 12 major
 points in the hospital.
 These are mainly at the significant entrances and exits, as well as covering
 some wards.
 The pictures from the cameras are stored on to long play video, which is
 changed at the end of a receptionists shift.
 The tape is kept for one week and then re-used.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

How do you contol access throughout the hospital?
\layout Quotation


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

The only locked wards we have are psychiatric and maternity.
 Maternity has a locked entrance with visitors requesting access by ringing
 a door bell.
 Any sensitive areas of the hospital are accessed by a pin number.
 Anybody who is in an area they should not be in will be asked to leave
 by a nurse or a porter.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Are you governed by legislation in this area?
\layout Quotation


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

We have policies covering the safety of Doctors, Nurses and Patients.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Would Access contol be useful in a Hospital Environment?
\layout Quotation


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

I think in the near-future there will be some control of the movement of
 personnel and visitors but I don't think at this moment in time there is
 a 100% reliable system for achieving this.
\layout Subsection

Conclusion
\layout Standard

Our Groups decision is to specifically target the area of school and maternity
 ward security.
 The case of the Murrah building does highlight the increasing needs for
 public buildings to examine security.
 
\layout Standard

Building planners, architects, and managers must consider security in the
 early stages of design; foresight can mean significant rewards.
 Making a building secure does more than protect occupants and the contents
 of buildings.
\layout Standard

The Health and Safety at Work Regulations(1974) and as amended (1992) requires
 
\layout Quotation

That every employer shall make a suitable and sufficient assessment of ...
 the risks to the health and safety of persons not in his employment arising
 out of or in connection with the conduct by him or his undertaking.
 
\layout Standard


\emph on 
Employers now have a legal obligation to ensure the security of their staff.
\newline 

\layout Standard

Over all, regardless of the purpose or size of a building, a security system
 can serve to restrict access to controlled areas, prevent incidents, and
 monitor/record activity to facilitate intervention and investigation if
 a security breach occurs, cut personnel costs, and raise morale and productivit
y.
 Equally, an effective security can reduce an owner's liability for damage.
 Courts have held building owners or managers liable for assaults and other
 criminal acts committed on their properties.
 Evidence of a security system design to prevent such acts can mitigate
 the damages awarded by proving that reasonable care was taken to prevent
 such occurrences.
\layout Standard

By considering the needs of building occupants and visitors for easy access,
 the desire to display or not display security aspects, and by applying
 building codes and regulations, planners can design a security system which
 meets but need not exceed standards.
 A graduated scale of protection ensures that security can be cost effective.
 
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
An Overview
\layout Subsection

The Unit
\layout Standard

The unit will be a high security, low cost access contol system.
 Each entrance to the site will have an all in one unit comprising of:
\layout Itemize

A Dallas ring reader
\layout Itemize

Speaker
\layout Itemize

Microphone
\layout Itemize

Video camera
\layout Itemize

Buzzer
\layout Standard

This unit would be connected to the PC using ....
\layout Standard

The unit will have two modes of operation
\layout Subsubsection

Manuel Operation
\layout Standard

Access can be gained by placing a Dallas ring into the reader.
 The door will then open if a correct keynumber is provided.
 If the correct pin number is not forthcoming the the user will be timed
 out and will have to replace their Dallas ring.
 If access is required and the visitor does not have a Dallas Ring then
 they will be able to ring the buzzer to talk to the operator.
 The operator will be able to view video pictures streamed from the camera
 to gauge wether the visitor should gain access.
 The user will be able to enable access to the site from their computer.
\layout Subsubsection

Automatic Operation
\layout Standard

Access can be gained by placing a Dallas ring into the reader.
 The door will then open if a correct key number is provided.
 If the correct pin number is not forthcoming the the user will be timed
 out and will have to replace their Dallas ring.
 If access is required and the visitor does not have a Dallas Ring then
 they will not be able to gain entry.
\layout Subsection

Case Study1
\layout Subsubsection

The System
\layout Standard

All entrances to the school will be covered by the unit, 
\layout Subsubsection

The Users
\layout Standard

The holders of the Dallas ring will be the teachers and the pupils.
 This will enable them to have access throughout the school day.
\layout Standard

The system will be configurable so that access time for pupils and teachers
 can vary eg pupils will not need to be able to gain access to the school
 at the weekend or in the holidays.
 Teachers may need to work late or gain access during breaks.
 
\layout Subsubsection

The System Manager 
\layout Standard

The manager should have contol over who should be able to gain access to
 the site.
 They will also need to have contol over the data held in the Database.
 If the computer is an a receptionists office then they should also be able
 to continue using the normal features over their computer whilst nobody
 is requesting access.
\layout Subsection

casestudy2
\layout Subsubsection

The system
\layout Standard

The system would be placed at any entry point in the hospital that requires
 access control security.
 
\layout Subsubsection

The users
\layout Standard

The main system requirement would be reliability.
 The Access could not be impared at 
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
The Product
\layout Standard

The system is based on state of the art ibutton technology.
 
\layout Subsection

Serial ID Button
\layout Standard

What is an ibutton? 
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 118 103
file ../web/images/ibutton.ps
flags 11

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

The ibutton is a 16mm computer chip housed in a stainless steel can.
 The iButton can be worn by a person or attached to an object for up-to-date
 information at the point of use.The steel button is rugged enough to withstand
 harsh outdoor environments; it is durable enough for a person to wear everyday
 on a digital accessory like a ring, key fob, wallet, watch, or badge.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 218 154
file ../web/images/overvw3.ps
flags 11

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

There are a variety of buttons with different features.
 Each starts with a guaranteed-unique registration number engraved in the
 silicon.
 Some buttons add computer memory to store typed text or digitized photos;
 information can be updated as often as needed with a simple, momentary
 contact.
 Other buttons contain a real-time clock to track the number of hours a
 system is turned on for maintenance and warranty purposes; a temperature
 sensor for applications where spoilage is a concern, such as food transport;
 a transaction counter that allows the button to be used as a small change
 purse; or complete cryptographic circuitry to secure Internet transactions.
  
\layout Standard

The fragile silicon chip within the iButton is protected by the ultimate
 durable material: stainless steel.
 You can drop it, step on it, scratch it, or wear it swimming.
 IButtons' have a useful life of around 10 years while a magnetic / barcode
 system 's useful life is only 3 months to 2 years depends on the usage
 and maintenance.
 The ibutton has a unique Read Only Serial Number, no one can copy your
 ibutton or master ibutton.
\layout Standard

Authorization Buttons are sophisticated microelectronics, sealed into miniature
 stainless steel cans, creating a low cost, portable medium for storing
 and controlling access to sensitive information
\layout Standard

The iButton is ideal for any application where information needs to travel
 with a person or object.
 Affixed to a badge, key fob, watch, or ring, an iButton can grant its owner
 access to a building, a PC, a piece of equipment, or a vehicle.
 Attached to a work tote, it can measure a variety of processes to improve
 efficiency, such as manufacturing, delivery, and maintenance.
 Some versions of the iButton can be used to store cash for small transactions,
 such as transit systems, parking lots, and vending machines.
 The iButton can also be used as an electronic asset tag to store information
 needed to keep track of valuable capital equipment.
 
\layout Standard

With 20 million iButton currently in circulation, the list of users is very
 long.
 Some of the larger installations include the U.S.
 Post Office, which has iButtons affixed to blue corner mailboxes nationwide
 so they can do the tracking needed to ensure on-time delivery of the mail.
 Ryder has its entire truck fleet fitted with iButtons that track vehicle
 maintenance.
 Citizens of Istanbul, Turkey store digital cash in the iButton, using the
 device as a small change purse on their mass transit system.
 iButton Applications Worldwide highlights a variety of iButton applications.
 
\layout Standard

In conclusion, the architecture is very elegant, can migrate into the mainstream
 PC market with little engineering effort, and offers opportunity for the
 emergence of distributed security solutions that are both cost effective
 and reliable.
 
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Competitors
\layout Standard

There are a great number of companies working in the field of Security systems.
 Most selling products that are scalable; if you want Access Control you
 buy one part, if you need video as well then you an on.
 A minority of companies have designed specialised systems for Residential
 or small busineess' and only one or two have decided to target a unique
 market.
\layout Subsection

School Security
\layout Subsubsection

ECr Concepts
\layout Standard

ECr Concepts in Merthyr Tydfil plan to introduce a new credit card-style
 pass system to secondary and primary schools.
 It will monitor on computer everything from attendance to what children
 eat for lunch.
 Parents can pay for school meals in advance and this will be recorded on
 a computer.
 When a child goes for a meal, the card is swiped and a picture of the youngster
 appears on the computer for identification.
 What is ordered is also recorded.
\layout Standard

Parents can ask for a weekly read-out of meals eaten and obtain a breakdown
 of their fat, carbohydrate and protein content to ensure a healthy, balanced
 diet.
 The card will incorporate an entry function.
 It can be used to enter the school and selected controlled areas.
 As well as keeping out intruders, staff will be able to monitor attendance
 and record daily movements in the school.
\layout Standard

Their local councillor stated: 
\layout Quotation

"It sounds a great idea for the future of security and paying for meals
 and other services in schools.
 The card will not only ensure that unauthorized access is not allowed at
 school but can cover simple everyday things like ensuring children have
 their school meals.
 
\emph on 
I can envisage a day in the not too distant future when every schoolchild
 in Britain will have one of these cards to use in their schools."
\layout Subsection

Specialised Security Systems
\layout Subsubsection

CEM Security Systems
\layout Standard

CEM security systems has a similar marketing strategy to our own.
 They have seen a specific gap in the market (airport security) and designed
 their product accordingly.
 
\layout Standard

Since installing their first system at Belfast International Airport in
 1987, CEM Systems Ltd.
 has migrated their Airport 2000 system throughout the major airports of
 the United Kingdom including Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted, Glasgow, Manchester,
 East Midlands, Luton and Edinburgh.
 CEM have also installed similar systems in airports around the globe.
 
\layout Standard

Each different airport in the United Kingdom has differing security needs.
 However, all use the Airport 2000 Visual Imaging Pass Production System
 (VIPPS) in one manner or another.
 VIPPS captures, compresses, stores and retrieves graphical and textual
 data such as images, logos and signatures.
 
\layout Standard

Their chairman states:
\layout Quotation

"VIPPS allows the airport to add graphical and textual information to the
 database, capture images from live or still cameras and photographs, retrieve
 and update previously entered data, write data to various card technologies
 and define badge layouts."
\layout Subsection

Security using iButton technology
\layout Subsubsection

Seadan Security & Electronics
\layout Standard

Seadan Security & Electronics offers the EL1200 Access System for physical
 access control of medium-size offices and buildings, or areas within buildings.
 The EL1200 system can store information for up to 1,500 individuals permitted
 to access a building.
 
\layout Standard

To gain entrance to a building secured with the EL1200 Access System, an
 employee touches his or her iButton-based key ring or token to an iButton
 reader mounted by the door, then enters their Personal Identification Number
 (PIN).
 The system compares the data read from the iButton and PIN number to the
 system's data base, then unlocks the door if the data is verified as correct.
 An entry log is maintained by the EL1200 showing all persons who entered
 by a specific door, and what date and time they entered.
 
\layout Standard

The system allows for 10 access time zones or categories, allowing the system
 to compensate for a company's holiday schedule.
 The iButton reader unit has 12 keys and 4 display characters for simple
 operation and programming.
 Output point can be configured as a door open alarm output, timer-driven
 output, or sensor alarm output Standard software packages are available
 
\layout Standard

The EL1200 is equipped with a standard interface for network operation.
 Ultimately connecting the units to a PC for centralized monitoring and
 control.
 
\layout Subsubsection

Cansec Systems Ltd.
 
\layout Standard

Cansec offers two iButton access readers for use with Cansec- and OEM-manufactur
ed access control systems, and the associated TAS100 Data Management Software
 package supports up to 1,000 users and four reader groups for either the
 TAS100 or the RT100.
 
\layout Standard

TAS100 Touch Access Stand-Alone System is a self-contained, programmable
 access control system.
 It is simple to install and operate, requiring no communications wires
 for use.
 The system includes easy-to-use programming software, and access keys are
 programmed with a read/write iButton key.
 The reader features rugged metal construction and bi-color LED status.
 A Sonalert tone alerts users to someone attempting or achieving access
 to a building or room.
 .
 A bi-colored LED and Sonalert provide users with both visual and audible
 signals of access being granted or denied.
 The face plate and stainless steel read head are vandal-resistant and suitable
 for both indoor and outdoor use.
 While in use, the last 64 access granted messages can be retrieved from
 the Reader with an audit key.
\layout Subsection

General Security Companies
\layout Subsubsection

Gyr secutity 
\layout Standard

Gyr market an advanced security management system specifically designed
 to assist professional facilities and security managers by providing a
 single screen solution.
 It's claimed to be the ideal tool for building access, parking access and
 CCTV control at single or multiple locations.
\layout Subsubsection

PAC access control
\layout Standard

PAC for Windows Residential is a PC based housing security system running
 under Microsoft Windows.
 The system has been designed for single and multi-block estates with up
 to 30,640 doors and any number of users.
\layout Standard

PAC for Windows Residential offers a wide range of building management functions
 which include: monitoring and controlling security cameras; linking to
 paging systems for mobile personnel and monitoring fire doors and lift
 doors to check wether thy have been left open; 
\layout Standard

Tenants are issued with PAC proximity keys, three per flat, color coded
 for easy recognition.
 Local authority staff carry PAC proximity ID cards which include a photograph
 for identification purpose
\layout Standard

At the Housing Office, PAC readers are fitted to external doors, to restrict
 access to the building, and system administration is carried out at a central
 PC.
 Additional PCs are located in the concierge of each of the residential
 blocks for monitoring alarms and system events, and to allow guards manual
 control of doors and carpark barriers.
\layout Standard

Ancillary equipment, including panic buttons, fire exits, ventilation and
 heating equipment in the main building are monitored using PAC Alarm Event
 Managers.
 Concierge and maintenance staff are alerted to problems via pagers.
\layout Standard

Car park lighting is time-controlled via the PAC Alarm Event Manager.
\layout Standard

Elevator control is used in each of the residential blocks to restrict access
 by tenants to different floors of the main building.
\layout Subsection

Conclusion
\layout Standard

There are only a couple of companies working in the field of iButton building
 access control, none of which have identified a niche market or offer audio
 visual communication.
 
\layout Standard

Our Group is unique in that it is supplying a state of the art system that
 will meet the needs of our market.
 Like Cemsys we have identified a specific need and therefore we should
 be able to reap the dividend.
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Bibliography
\layout Standard

Building Security: Are You Overlooking Something? by Robert Hager, IDenticard
 Systems, Inc.
 
\layout Standard

www.telegraph.co.uk
\layout Standard

www.cemsys-na.com
\layout Standard

www.gyr.com
\layout Standard

www.pac.co.uk 
\layout Standard

www.ibutton.com/Connections/Catalogs/seadan.html
\the_end
