#This file was created by <imt> Mon May 11 11:59:53 1998
#LyX 0.12 (C) 1995-1998 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage widemarginsa4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

PROJECT REQUIREMENT SPECIFICATION
\layout Author

System Design Group Seven
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 128 125
file ../web/images/EUcrest-official-noborder.ps
flags 11

\end_inset 


\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Product Task
\layout Standard

Ding Dong Doorentry Systems Ltd has commissioned our group to develop an
 idea for a new product.
 The product will be a door entry system that will allow a person within
 a building to use their own PC to view and communicate to the person at
 the door.
 Our task is to provide a prototype unit and the accompanying software for
 this project.
 The Market Potential for this device can be broken down down as:
\layout Subsection

Residential 
\layout Standard

Information from AmeriTech (a CCTV security firm) showed that you are five
 times less likely to be burgled if you have some form of surveillance scheme.
 The scheme we aim to provide would have to meet the competing needs of
 specific user groups.
 They can be broken down as:
\layout Subsubsection

Blocks of Flats 
\layout Standard

The increase of PC's in the home may allow this product to become an alternative
 to the standard door-entry system.
 According to a representative of Castle Security (a local security company)
 it would be unwanted by technophobes and those on a limited income for
 the forseeable future; the moment the majority of people are quite happy
 with the system they have; they can already identify anyone who comes to
 their door.
\layout Subsubsection

Accommodation with a servitor
\layout Standard

The servitors office would contain the PC and during the day people could
 be let in by sight only.
 During the night a form of security could be set on the main entrances.
 The potential here is for accommodation like halls of residence.
\layout Subsubsection

Semi /detached property
\layout Standard

Unlikely to be a market in smaller property, people will usually answer
 their door or look out to see who it is.
 There may be a market in countries like the USA where there is a significant
 gun culture, and residents already have a fear of intruders.
 The main market at present would be properties standing in a large area
 ie.
 estate houses.
 They can have entrances that are set a significant distance away from the
 property and could use the improved security of a visual communication.
 They are also likely to have the need and the money to invest in this form
 of security
\layout Subsection

Commercial
\layout Standard

This will be our proposed target market, in light of the Cullen Inquiry
 into the Dunblane report and the 1995 NHS Executive recommendation, the
 need for low cost security has significantly increased.
 Lord Cullen stated
\layout Quotation


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

It is recognized that there should be arrangements for security to prevent
 unauthorized access to the school.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

The Health and Safety at Work Regulations(1974) and as amended (1992) requires
 
\layout Quotation


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

That every employer shall make a suitable and sufficient assessment of the
 risks to the health and safety of persons in his employment arising out
 of or in connection with the conduct by him or his undertaking.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 
\layout Standard

Employers have a legal obligation to ensure the security of their staff.
\layout Subsubsection

Education
\layout Standard

By encouraging schools to place this system at the entry points to their
 site; visitor movement could be controlled.
 During specific times the doors would be required to be left open, eg 8.15
 - 9.15, to allow pupil and teacher access but outside of these times access
 to the site will be controlled inside the school.
 Allowing the system to be configurable will allow this policy to be changed
 ie.
 the children could each have their own security device.
 Outside of school times the site will be closed to all but those with security
 access, which should have the added effect of cutting down vandalism.
 In situations were people are using part of the school out of hours then
 they will have to possess a security pass.
\layout Subsection

NHS 
\layout Standard

The system could be integrated to the front doors of wards that demand security
 for example maternity wards.
 Visitors will only be able to enter these areas if they have a specific
 reason to be there.
 The problems with existing NHS security include
\layout Itemize

security being lax because no-one monitors the video cameras.
\layout Itemize

security is bypassed by people who pretend to be some one else.
\layout Standard

The system we aim to supply must be quick and easy to use, since there may
 be emergency situations where the time is criticall, particularly a cardiac
 arrest alarm.
 Therefore the demands on the system will involve doctors needing instant
 access to wards; whilst still keeping a level of security that will satisfy
 parents.
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Minimum System
\layout Subsection

System Description
\layout Standard

Any visitor to the site will be able to request access by ringing a door
 bell.
 If the user is at their PC, they will be able to run the software to use
 the camera.
 The software will display one still image picture that will be regularly
 updated (approximately one frame every four seconds), this picture will
 be saved as a file.
 The user will be able to communicate with the visitor from the PC.
 If the user is satisfied that this person should have access to the site,
 then they will be able to send a signal to open the door.
\layout Standard

When there is no reply from the user the visitor will be able to gain access
 to the site if they know the correct pin number.
\layout Subsection

Software description
\layout Standard

The Client-side features:
\layout Itemize

Will display a picture which will regularly be updated
\layout Itemize

The picture will be saved to a file
\layout Itemize

Will handle duplex audio
\layout Itemize

The database information will be stored in a text format
\layout Itemize

Will supply a way to open the door
\layout Itemize

There will be an operational mode control (deactivate automatic system,
 indicate a person is leaving the PC)
\layout Standard

The general software will include 
\layout Itemize

Keep alive indicators(indicating that the keypad etc is still working)
\layout Subsection

Hardware features
\layout Standard

The unit will 
\layout Itemize

Have a keypad for inputing pin numbers
\layout Itemize

Handle duplex audio with no compression
\layout Itemize

There will be a lock relay
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Intended System
\layout Subsection

System Description
\layout Standard

Any visitor to the site will be able to request access by ringing a door
 bell.
 The program will pop up, giving the user instant communication with the
 visitor.
 The software will display one still image picture that will be regularly
 updated, this picture will be saved to a file.
 The user will be able to communicate with the visitor from the PC.
 If the user is satisfied that this person should have access to the site
 then they will be able to send a signal to open the door.
 The user will also be able to access diagnostic information at any time
 so that they can find out the current state of the system.
\layout Standard

When there is no reply from the user the visitor will be able to gain access
 if they have an authorized Dallas ring and type in the correct PIN number
 to go with it.
 The PIN could be optional.
\layout Subsection

Software description
\layout Standard

The Client-side features
\layout Itemize

Will include database management software
\layout Itemize

The program will pop up when the doorbell rings.
\layout Itemize

There will be a stored masterkey sequence contained in the non-volatile
 part of memory.
\layout Standard

The general software will include 
\layout Itemize

A report on the diagnostics of the system.
\layout Subsection

Hardware features
\layout Standard

The unit will comprise of a:
\layout Itemize

Dallas ring reader
\layout Itemize

A door sensor
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Ideal System
\layout Subsection

System Description 
\layout Standard

The PC will display a continuous stream of video.
 The user will be able to stop the frame at any point, this will allow the
 user to see the most recognizable image the camera provides.
 The database information will contain a picture of the person whose PIN
 number has been typed; allowing the user to see if the picture on record
 is the same as the person attempting to use the PIN.
 If the picture is the same the visitor will have authorized access; if
 its different appropriate steps can be taken (the removal of that person
 from the premises).
 The user will then be able to communicate with the visitor and allow access
 to the site.
 
\layout Standard

When there is no user at the PC, requesting entry will enable the PC to
 reply with a recorded message of the users choosing.
 The camera will also store some frames to keep a record of who has accessed
 the site.
 Access can then be gained by a Dallas ring placed in a reader and typing
 in the correct PIN.
 The PC will contain a database of information (PIN numbers) with everything
 running through netscape.
 The system will contain a modem to allow a remote site to control the doors.
\layout Standard

Therefore a large site can be controlled by a LAN linking all of cameras
 to a centrally controlled point.
\layout Subsection

Software description
\layout Standard

The Client-side features:
\layout Itemize

Will show an official picture based on the users ID
\layout Itemize

We will implement an http server
\layout Standard

The general software will include 
\layout Itemize

The PC will determine wether the user is absent
\layout Subsection

Hardware features
\layout Standard

The unit will comprise of a:
\layout Itemize

Will have some form of audio hardware compression.
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Hazards + Threats
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Fault: 
\series default 
Failure of power system
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Reported by:
\series default 
 
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Likelihood:
\series default 
 High in a remote area, unlikely in urban areas.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Consequences: 
\series default 
Undesirable, the system will shut down and will need to be booted up manually
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Response to failure:
\layout Standard

The doors can be opened from the inside by the mechanical lock.
 From the outside by a key.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Fault: 
\series default 
Failure of electronic entry system
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Reported by:
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Likelihood: 
\series default 
low
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Consequences: 
\series default 
Entry will only take place manually.
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000


\series bold 
Response to failure:
\layout Standard

The door will open with a manual key and an alarm will go off.
 If the person entering is genuine then they will know how to override the
 alarm.
 If it is a break-in then the alarm will act as a signal for help.
\the_end
