#This file was created by <skk> Thu May 14 18:54:45 1998
#LyX 0.12 (C) 1995-1998 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme palatino
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage widemarginsa4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Feasibility Study
\layout Author

System Design Group Seven 
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 128 125
file ../web/images/EUcrest-official-noborder.ps
flags 11

\end_inset 


\layout Standard
\pagebreak_top 

\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents

\end_inset 


\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Introduction
\layout Standard

Ding Dong Doorentry Systems Ltd.
 (DDDS) has commissioned our group to develop an idea for a new product.
 Their existing product market is centred on low-technology but robust door
 entry systems for stair doors.
 They would like to move into production of high specification door entry
 systems and, in particular, see a potential market that takes advantage
 of the fact that most small companies and many households now own a personal
 computer.
 The concept that DDDS has proposed is to use the screen and sound facilities
 already present on PC's, in combination with a remote door control unit.
 The intention is to sell a door entry system that allows a person within
 the premises to use a PC to view and communicate with the person at the
 door.
 In addition, the fact that all PC's are supplied with serial ports allows
 the PC to provide these functions whilst being situated away from the door
 itself.
 The remote door control unit would be sold together with the necessary
 PC software.
 
\layout Standard

As a further development of the concept, DDDS have proposed having automated
 entry control, such that entry can be gained without an operator being
 present at the PC.
 They have suggested that this could be done by operating the door with
 a combination of some kind of personal card or key, and a PIN number.
\layout Standard

We have been commissioned to produce a demonstration prototype of this product.
 In doing this, we have refined the initial specification for the product,
 and decided on the best way to provide the facilities that DDDS wants to
 see.
 This report outlines the findings of our market research, the design decisions
 which we have taken, and identifies the additional features that could
 increase the product's marketability.
 
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
General Market Research
\layout Standard

The given design specification identified two categories for the product,
 namely the commercial and the residential markets.
 We carried out a survey to gauge the degree of practicality and interest
 in producing a product for these markets.
 Both surveys involved asking three questions:
\layout Standard

1.
 Do you have a PC in your household/business?
\layout Standard

2.
 If you do, do you have some sort of door entry system?
\layout Standard

3.
 If so, would you be interested in a combined system? 
\layout Subsection

Residential Properties
\layout Standard

We carried out an informal survey of one hundred and twenty seven residents
 in and around Marchmont.
 The accommodation in this area mostly comprises of flats with communal
 stairwells; this market is already served by DDDS's existing products and
 those of its competitors.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center \LyXTable
multicol4
4 3 0 0 -1 -1 -1 -1
1 1 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 1 0 0
8 1 0 
8 1 0 
8 1 1 
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0

Residential Survey Results
\newline 
YES
\newline 
NO
\newline 
Do you have a PC in your Household?
\newline 
42
\newline 
85
\newline 
Do you have some form of door entry system?
\newline 
35
\newline 
7
\newline 
Would you be interested in combining the PC with a door entry system?
\newline 
6
\newline 
29
\layout Standard

Our survey indicates that only 17% of the people who had a PC and a door
 entry system would be interested in a product that combined the two.
 Although the market demand currently is low, it is possible that the demand
 in future might be greater.
 We identified the main residential markets to assess their likely future
 demands.
\layout Subsubsection

Blocks of Flats 
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 200 137
file ../web/images/pw3375.ps
flags 11

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

The increase of PCs in the home may allow this product to become an alternative
 to the standard door entry system.
 According to a representative of Castle Security (a local security company)
 the system would face the problem of convincing sections of the population
 of its value.
 There will always be a percentage who will be resistant to new technology.
 Another major weak point of a system in this market is that the fundamental
 design requires the PC to be switched on during all of the day.
 With current technology, this would be expensive and impractical.
 In addition, it is questionable whether the PC would be situated in a convenien
t location for this task; if not, the system would require extra cables
 to be run to the PC which would increase the cost of the system and the
 inconvenience for the householder.
\layout Subsubsection

Accommodation with a servitor
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 170 95
file ../web/images/masson.ps
width 1 6
flags 11

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

This form of accommodation differs from the above in that there is usually
 some form of supervision at the point of entry, i.e.
 a servitor.
 The servitor's office would contain the PC and during the day people could
 be let in by visual identification only.
 During the night a form of security could be set for the main entrances.
 The potential market here is accommodation similar to halls of residence.
 
\layout Standard

A spokesman for Pollock Halls of Residence was enthusiastic about the proposed
 system; the individual halls all have offices next to the main entrance,
 and all the offices also contain PCs that are unused overnight.
 The system could be useful in restricting access to residents only after
 a preset time.
 The spokesman also suggested a possible application of the product for
 the main gate of the halls; this would involve some form of access control
 for vehicles.
 This system could allow multiple sites to be administered from a central
 security office, thus reducing the costs of security provision.
\layout Subsubsection

Semi / Detached Property
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 226 170
file ../web/images/b2ivy163.ps
width 1 8
height 1 6
flags 11

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Typically these properties do not have a remote door entry system such as
 an intercom.
 A major reason for this is that existing security measures, such as mechanical
 locks and door peep-holes, are far cheaper and more reliable.
 Systems such as intercoms tend to be used where the distance from the door
 to the operator is significant, but in this sort of residential property,
 a visitor can expect to be met at the front door.
 Therefore, the market in this sector is extremely limited.
 
\layout Standard

A more likely market in this area would be properties sited within large
 grounds, which can have entrances that are set a significant distance away
 from the property.
 These properties could use the improved security of visual communication,
 and the added convenience of being able to identify visitors from inside
 the property.
 However, there is once again a number of drawbacks of the proposed system.
 Primarily, the use of a PC as the control device conflicts with typical
 patterns of PC use in a domestic environment, namely that it would need
 to be powered up for most of the time.
 It would also need to be in an easily accessed location, such as a hallway,
 and would therefore need to be as small and discrete as possible.
 Existing intercom and videophone solutions have recognised this, and have
 produced products no bigger than a conventional telephone.
 
\layout Subsection

Conclusion
\layout Standard

In the residential market sector, it is clear that the proposed system has
 a number of significant drawbacks.
 Existing products provide both audio and video functionality, and at a
 moderate cost.
 The lack of uniformity of PC ownership means that such a system is an immediate
 non-starter in shared stair environments.
 Furthermore, the cost of providing a PC as part of the package would negate
 any potential cost saving inherent in the system concept.
 What the domestic residential market really wants is reliable, low cost
 technology that is easy to use, convenient and discrete.
 On these grounds, the proposed system would be unable to compete with products
 already on the market.
 Our research findings backs this up; the majority of people are quite happy
 with their present system.
\layout Subsection

Commercial
\layout Subsubsection

Small/Large Business
\layout Standard

We carried out an informal survey of fifteen small to medium size commercial
 properties; these ranged in function from an architect's office to a dental
 surgery.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center \LyXTable
multicol4
4 3 0 0 -1 -1 -1 -1
1 1 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 1 0 0
8 1 0 
8 1 0 
8 1 1 
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0

Commercial
\newline 
YES
\newline 
NO
\newline 
Does your office contain a PC?
\newline 
15
\newline 
0
\newline 
Do you have some form of door entry system?
\newline 
14
\newline 
1
\newline 
Would you be interested in combining the PC with a door entry system?
\newline 
8
\newline 
6
\layout Standard

Our survey indicates that 57% of the companies who had a PC and a door entry
 system would be interested in a product that combined the two.
 Specific commercial targets were then identified so that we could determine
 a business strategy.
 Given that the product is intended to be a low cost security solution,
 designed for use both by visitors to premises and authorised occupants,
 we identified two large markets which fit this category.
 
\layout Subsubsection

Education
\layout Standard

We carried out an informal survey of seven local schools; three of these
 were primary schools and four were secondary.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center \LyXTable
multicol4
4 3 0 0 -1 -1 -1 -1
1 1 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 1 0 0
8 1 0 
8 1 0 
8 1 1 
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0
0 8 1 0 0 0 0

Education
\newline 
YES
\newline 
NO
\newline 
Does your school office contain a PC?
\newline 
7
\newline 
0
\newline 
Does your school have some form of door entry system (e.g.
 intercom)?
\newline 
0
\newline 
7
\newline 
Would you be interested a combined PC and door entry system?
\newline 
3
\newline 
4
\layout Standard

If schools were to place this system at entrance points it would allow them
 to control access to the premises.
 Allowing children and teachers to have their own unique access device would
 make automated access control a viable proposition.
 Visitors would be required to identify themselves using the audio/visual
 communication part of the system.
 Outside of school times the site would be closed to all but those with
 an access device.
 Additionally, the system would be configurable, so that schools could match
 the level of security provision with their own needs.
 For example, a rural school could have a policy of open access during the
 day and automated access control outwith these periods.
 A city school might need a higher level of security, so that open access
 was only available at arrival and leaving times; this would be set by the
 operator of the system.
\layout Subsubsection

NHS 
\layout Standard

The needs of hospital security, like school security, vary with the location
 and the circumstances.
 While most wards are open-access, there remains a need for security in
 many areas of hospital buildings.
 For example, recent media attention has highlighted the inadequacies of
 the security measures in some maternity wards; our system has the potential
 to rectify these deficiencies.
 Other areas, such as medicine cupboards and supply stores, and areas which
 are staff-only also require some form of restriction on access.
 Again, our system is tailored to these demands.
 
\layout Standard

Government inquiries into hospital security, prompted by a spate of `baby-snatch
ing' incidents in the early 1990s, identified some existing NHS security
 measures as being insufficient.
 Among the most salient points made in these reports were:
\layout Itemize

video security cameras are often left unmonitored
\layout Itemize

automated security being bypassed by people who pretend to be someone else
\layout Standard

The proposed system would have to be highly reliable and easy to use; the
 nature of the hospital environment is such that some existing technologies,
 such as magnetic swipe cards, are liable to failure (in this case from
 magnetic fields generated by scanning equipment).
 As there may be emergency situations where time is critical, and where
 access to a particular area is suddenly more important than security, a
 hospital system would need to have some form of manual override which could
 be operated from either side of the door.
 This could operate in tandem with an alarm system, to prevent abuse of
 the override facility.
\layout Subsection

Conclusion
\layout Standard

Examining the commercial user group, their needs and their response to our
 proposed design, it is clear that there is a significant level of enthusiasm
 for the proposed product.
 Given the highly specific needs of these markets in relation to the general
 commercial security market, the proposed design should be tailored to meet
 these needs.
 Therefore, the proposed design's key features should reflect the needs
 of these markets, namely low cost, reliability and durability.
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Market Sector Analysis
\layout Standard

In the market sectors which we have focused on, demand for the proposed
 product has been created or increased by Government legislation, media
 attention, and the influence of Government committees and working parties.
 In addition, the concerns of the general public relating to security in
 public access buildings, and lobbying by the teaching and health unions
 have raised awareness of security issues in their respective areas.
\layout Subsection

School Security
\layout Standard

School security is an issue that has received significant attention in recent
 years.
 The government has investigated the issue in great detail recently, following
 events such as the Dunblane shooting and the consequent repercussions.
 In his inquiry into the Dunblane shooting, Lord Cullen stated
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

It is recognised that there should be arrangements for security to prevent
 unauthorised access to the school.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

On the same subject, the National Union of Teachers commented that 
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Every school in Britain should be redesigned so that they have only one
 entrance.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 
\layout Standard

A government inquiry in 1989 into school security, chaired by Lord Elton,
 came to the same conclusion.
 The Manchester branch of the NUT called for 
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Legislation which will ensure that each school invests in adequate and appropria
te safety and surveillance systems to protect staff and deter intruders.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

In addition to official comment, the media has made much of the need for
 school security.
 This in turn has created greater public pressure for greater measures to
 be taken.
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Several schools have suffered devastating arson attacks.
 Millions have had to be spent on refurbishment or rebuilding, simply because
 arsonists could walk on to school premises at will...it is quite common for
 thieves to wander into school in search of easy pickings during the working
 day.
 The tragic deaths of Philip Lawrence, the head teacher who died protecting
 a pupil, and of Nicky Conroy, the schoolgirl shot dead while at work in
 a school classroom, should have focused attention on the problem [of school
 security].
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Quote

The Times (Friday, 24 May 1996)
\layout Standard

The result of the combined interest of the media, the general public and
 the government is that school security is now a political issue, and clearly
 there is demand for products which fill this market.
\layout Subsubsection

Interview with Mr N McLeod (Assistant Head Teacher of Stornoway Primary
 School)
\layout Standard

Stornoway Primary has a roll of approximately 420 pupils.
 All the classes are held in one complex, and the site is self contained.
 There are seven entrances.
 One for each year of the school, and two main entrances for visitors and
 teachers etc.
\layout Standard

Are there any problems with security at the school?
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

The main problem we have is the rise of vandalism at the weekends, school
 windows being broken and dustbins being set alight.
 Vandalism costs the school approximately £10,000 per year
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

What measures have the school taken to tackle security issues?
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

During the day the school is open to anyone; at night the entrances are
 all locked and the police make regular patrols to discourage the vandals.
 By the autumn the school will be connected up to Stornoway's CCTV system.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Does the school have a budget for security?
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

No, we just use our budget to pay for any security measures.
 In the past this has meant buying better security for the windows on the
 ground floor.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Is there more pressure on schools in light of the Dunblane report?
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

In the immediate aftermath, there was a degree of anxiety from parents,
 I think it has made them more aware that schools can find it hard to properly
 look after every individual pupil.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Subsubsection

Interview with Angus Morrison of the SSERC
\layout Standard

The SSERC (Scottish Schools Equipment Research Centre) are a service set
 up in 1965 by the Scottish Education Authorities as a common agency to
 provide advice, information, consultancy and training on science and technology
 education equipment and facilities.
 
\layout Standard

Until the 1996 reorganisation of Scottish Local Government the members of
 the company were the twelve regional and islands councils.
 Currently, members are being recruited from the thirty two new unitary
 councils.
 Members pay an annual subscription plus fees in return for specific services.
 Members and third parties may also access other aspects of the service
 such as training and consultancy at additional charge.
 Membership of the company carries the right to nominate a director to the
 Board of the company.
 It is this Board which has overall control of SSERC science, technology
 and safety support services.
 
\layout Standard

The service employs staff and engages part-time consultants with relevant
 specialist scientific and technological qualifications and expertise.
 Most of the team are also qualified teachers or support staff and between
 them have many years of practical, educational experience.
 
\layout Standard

What is your role in the SSERC?
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

I teach Chemistry at Rutherglen Academy, and I carry out consultation work
 in project management for the SSERC.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Can you see a need for increased school security?
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

I think there is a need for your system in some areas of the country; but
 there needs to be a balance struck between bringing up children in a safe
 environment and bringing them up over protected.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

What do you consider to be the good points about our system?
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

If it is cheap and reliable then that will be a strong selling point.
 In school situations it is also advantageous if it can be user-friendly
 and safe.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

What would you be looking for in a security system?
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

How does the system react if there is a fire alarm? How do you know when
 the system has stopped working? Does each door in the site have the system,
 and if they do, do they all come with video cameras and are they all connected
 to the one PC? Most importantly, will this system still work for you in
 ten years; in twenty years?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Subsubsection

Conclusions on School Security Issues
\layout Standard

While the need for school security is clearly present, any proposed system
 has to meet a number of demands.
 Security levels need to be tailored to the individual school, so the system
 has to be highly flexible and configurable.
 The limitations of school funding mean that, despite recent public attention,
 school security is an issue which receives a relatively small proportion
 of overall funding.
 Therefore, the system has to be low-cost; this is the intention behind
 the use of a PC at the remote end.
 The system also has to be extendable to cover more than one entrance, ideally
 with the same method of entry.
 Again, by using a remote computer linked to multiple doors, this is a possibili
ty.
 Reliability and durability are also paramount, and the system has to be
 able to withstand abuse over a period of many years.
 Ideally, this means that all external parts should be as tough and damage-resis
tant as possible, while having a minimum number of components that could
 fail.
\layout Subsection

Hospital Wards
\layout Standard

As with schools, hospitals have varied and highly specific needs in terms
 of security provision.
 Again, the problem is a potentially very large institution with the conflicting
 requirements of public access and site security.
 Again, there has been government, public and media attention directed at
 the issues surrounding hospital security, particularly following a spate
 of incidents in maternity wards during the early 1990s.
\layout Subsubsection

Case Studies
\layout Standard

Over recent years there have been numerous, highly publicised security breaches
 in maternity wards of hospitals:
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

A baby girl was snatched from her cot in a hospital maternity unit yesterday
 three hours after being born, in front of her mother who lay in an adjacent
 bed ...
\layout Quote

Kali Hawthorne was grabbed by a blonde-haired woman who walked into the
 ward as the baby's father was telephoning relatives from a nearby corridor
 to tell them of the birth ...
 The abduction again raised major questions about security in hospital maternity
 wards which was supposed to have been increased following the abduction
 of four-hour-old Abbie Humphreys from the Queen's Medical Center, Nottingham,
 in July 1994.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 
\layout Quote

The Daily Telegraph (6th Decembers 1997)
\layout Standard

In situations such as these, the trust of the hospital staff has been abused
 for the crime to be committed.
 Patients and relatives do not want these wards to become fortess-like,
 but concurrent with this is the clear need for security provision.
 This serves not only to protect the patients but also to deter intruders
 and provide reassurance to patients and staff.
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

A bogus doctor who apparently staged a re-enactment of a plot from the medical
 television series Dangerfield was being sought by police last night.
 
\layout Quote

The incident, on Tuesday in Bysing Wood, near Faversham, Kent, mirrors the
 plot of the Oct 25 episode of the BBC series.
 The women walked into a geriatric ward, posing as a doctor from a local
 health center and injected her "patient" in both arms.
 It is not known what the syringe contained but police said that the woman,
 in her 40s, was not harmed.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Quote

The Daily Telegraph (14th November 1996)
\layout Standard

In this case, the breach of security was a result of a policy decision by
 the hospital that most wards should be open access.
 It is not intended that the product be used as a means of restricting access
 to such wards, and indeed it is unlikely that there would be much demand
 for the product to be used in this way.
 The main market would be for non-patient areas, such as storage facilities,
 offices, but also wards where enhanced security is required.
\layout Standard

A problem that is particular to hospitals is that conventional electronic
 door entry technology, which is based on magnetic media, is highly susceptible
 to interference from strong magnetic fields, commonly present in hospital
 equipment such as MRI scanners.
 The proposed system has to be able to overcome this problem if it is to
 be viable in this market.
\layout Subsubsection

An interview with Brian Liddle (Chairman of the Western Isles Health Board)
\layout Standard

Ospadal Nan Eileen is the only major hospital in the Western Isles.
 The facility serves a population of 15,000.
 It includes the only maternity, surgery and emergency facilities on the
 Island.
\layout Standard

What security measures do you have in place?
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

At present the hospital has closed circuit television cameras at twelve
 major points in the hospital.
 These are mainly at the significant entrances and exits.
 The pictures from the cameras are stored on to a twelve hour video, which
 is changed at the end of each receptionist's shift.
 The tape is kept for one week and then re-used.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

How do you control access throughout the hospital?
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

The only locked wards we have are psychiatric and maternity.
 Maternity has a locked entrance, in which visitors request access by ringing
 a door bell.
 Any sensitive areas of the hospital are accessed by a pin number.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Are you governed by legislation in this area?
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

We have policies covering the safety of doctors, nurses and patients.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Would being able to control access be useful in a hospital environment?
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

I think in the near-future there will be some control of the movement of
 personnel and visitors but I don't think at this moment in time there is
 a 100% reliable system for achieving this.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Subsubsection

An interview with John Fitzpatrick (consultant anaesthetist at the Southern
 General.)
\layout Standard

Are you governed by any specific security measures?
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

I have a security pass to identify myself, I have a password to access computer
 systems, a key for my office and PIN and key number to access some chemical
 cupboards.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Would you benefit from having one device that could replace all of these?
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

I think anything that made life easier would be a good thing but it would
 need to be as secure as present technology.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Subsubsection

Hospital Market Research
\layout Standard

There are approximately forty-four hospitals in the Edinburgh area; we contacted
 four of them to gauge their reaction to the system.
 In each case we talked to someone in charge of their works department.
 Three of the four declared an interest in the product and their comments
 included:
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Although the system would be successful in wards, it does seem as if it
 could be of more use in its automated format.
 We have specific areas of the hospital that only certain people can enter,
 this includes the morgue, pharmacy and computer departments.
 At present we use PIN numbers and keys to gain access but this sounds like
 a more effective way of implementing our security strategy.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

(Royal Victoria Hospital)
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Any form of access contol to wards would have to be rigorously monitored
 to ensure patient safety is not infringed.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

(Tippethill Hospital)
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

If the system is reasonably cost effective then I can see it being of interest
 to a lot of hospitals.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

(Queen Margaret Hospital)
\layout Subsubsection

Conclusions on Hospital Security Issues
\layout Standard

The needs of hospital security differs substantially from that of schools.
 In hospitals, the usual policy is to have wards as open-access, i.e.
 visitors can enter and leave at any time.
 As a result, it is unlikely that there will be a market for this product
 to secure general wards.
 However, there are certain exceptions to this rule.
 In particular, maternity wards have been highlighted as an area where security
 should be given higher priority.
 
\layout Standard

The second point to make is that hospitals, while being generally public-access,
 do have a significant number of staff-only areas; if a security system
 is to be produced to secure these areas, it has to be able to cope with
 conditions in the hospital environment, and has to be scalable to cover
 a potentially huge site.
\layout Subsection

General Security Issues
\layout Standard

Building planners, architects, and managers must consider security in the
 early stages of design; foresight can mean significant rewards.
 Making a building secure does more than protect occupants and the contents
 of buildings.
\layout Standard

The Health and Safety at Work Regulations (1974) and as amended (1992) requires
 
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

That every employer shall make a suitable and sufficient assessment of the
 risks to the health and safety of persons in his employment arising out
 of or in connection with the conduct by him or his undertaking.
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

In other words, employers have a legal obligation to protect the health
 and well-being of their employees; this definition incorporates the protection
 of their security.
\layout Standard

Overall, regardless of the purpose or size of a building, a security system
 can:
\layout Itemize

restrict access to controlled areas 
\layout Itemize

prevent incidents 
\layout Itemize

monitor/record security breaches to facilitate intervention and investigation
\layout Itemize

cut personnel costs
\layout Itemize

raise morale and productivity 
\layout Standard

Equally, an effective security system can reduce an owner's liability for
 damage.
 Courts have held building owners or managers liable for assaults and other
 criminal acts committed on their properties.
 Evidence of a security system designed to prevent such acts can mitigate
 the damages awarded by proving that reasonable care was taken to prevent
 such occurrences.
\layout Standard

By considering the needs of building occupants and visitors for easy access,
 the desire to display or not display security aspects, and by applying
 building codes and regulations, planners can design a security system which
 meets but need not exceed standards.
 A graduated scale of protection ensures that security can be cost effective.
 
\layout Standard

Additionally, existing legislation and guidelines relating to building safety
 have to be considered during the design of any door entry system.
 This has significant implications on the design of the door system; it
 must default to the `open' position in the event of power failure or the
 fire alarm sounding, so the system has to be linked into existing building
 monitoring functions such as the fire system.
\layout Subsection

Conclusion
\layout Standard

For the specific markets that have been selected, the security system has
 to offer the following features:
\layout Itemize

High level of reliability
\layout Itemize

Configurable levels of security
\layout Itemize

Immune to magnetic field interference
\layout Itemize

Low cost
\layout Itemize

Simple user interface at both ends
\layout Itemize

Key device must be easy to carry around and use
\layout Itemize

Intercom communication to identify visitors
\layout Itemize

Video capture for additional security and logging
\layout Standard
\pagebreak_bottom 
Therefore, the proposed system has been designed to meet these requirements.
\layout Section

Analysis of Potential Markets
\layout Subsection

Survey of local schools
\layout Standard

There are approximately six hundred schools in the Edinburgh area.
 We contacted seven of them to get information about whether they would
 be interested in the system and to listen to any comments they had.
 Some of the comments included:
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

We would prefer the system to only have video on the main entrance to the
 school, and would be worried that the school could become intimidating
 to pupils.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 
\layout Quote

Our Lady of Lourdes RC Primary School
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Unless the government makes it a priority, then they would not be taking
 any particular school precautions.
 The Cullen report's success in banning handguns has allayed a lot of parents'
 fears.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\layout Quote

North Queensferry Primary School
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

There would need to be strict tests on the system to make sure it did not
 infringe pupil safety, although we do consider the project a worthwhile
 exercise.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 Galashiels Academy
\layout Standard

Overall three of the schools contacted said that they would be interested
 in a system for security, whilst four declared no interest for the time
 being.
 If this survey is accurate then the market potential for the Edinburgh
 area would be around 240 schools.
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Feasibility of Final Product
\layout Subsection

The Proposed Hardware 
\layout Standard

The door entry system is designed to meet the needs of the product markets,
 as identified earlier.
 This has been achieved by the use of various technologies.
 The failsafe mechanisms are provided by the use of a mechanical and electro-mec
hanical combination of lock mechanisms.
 In normal operation, the electro-mechanical door mechanism operates to
 unlock the door, while a Yale-type latched doorlock allows manual operation
 with a conventional key.
 This means in the event of system failure due to power supply interruption,
 access can still be gained to the property by use of a key.
 Normally this key would be held by only one or two people, such as the
 security staff, and should not be distributed for widespread use; as this
 would defeat the security features inherent in the electronic mechanism.
 
\layout Standard

The main electro-mechanical mechanism is driven by lock control unit, which
 in turn is connected by a serial link of variable length to the remote
 PC.
 The lock control unit has the capability to automatically control entry
 without needing to communicate with the remote PC, and is therefore protected
 from failure in the event of a break in the serial link.
 
\layout Standard

A simple user interface has been designed, which offers a high degree of
 reliability and security.
 Although magnetic swipe cards are a widely-used and low-cost technology
 in door-lock systems, this design does not use them.
 There is another system which offers greater reliability and convenience,
 while still being relatively low-cost.
 This technology is called iButton and it is manufactured by Dallas Semiconducto
r; it consists of a small button-shaped tag which can be mounted on a laminated
 identity card or a plastic keyring holder.
 This means it is more convenient to carry around than a conventional magnetic
 swipe card.
 
\layout Standard

Additionally, it does not require moving contact for it to be read, and
 cannot be wiped by magnetic fields; this technology was therefore chosen
 to meet the needs of our chosen market.
 Each iButton is manufactured with a unique identification number, which
 our system reads from the device and uses to identify the user.
 The user is then required to enter a Personal Identification Number (PIN)
 which then allows them to enter the building.
 The PIN is entered using a conventional numeric keypad, which is part of
 the lock control system.
 
\layout Standard

The second mode of operation requires the use of video and audio systems.
 The design requirement of using a serial link means that this data has
 to be digitised and sent over the link.
 These functions are also carried out by the lock control unit.
 It is proposed that the final product would have the entry buzzer button
 located just below the camera, so that the picture from the camera would
 be of the visitor's face.
 The location of the microphone and speaker of the audio system are less
 important, but these would be part of the same external unit, and would
 be separate from the lock control unit itself.
\layout Standard

Finally, the design is such that external tampering does not make access
 possible.
 The input devices (camera, keypad, iButton reader, microphone) and output
 devices (speaker, status indicators) are wired so that they cannot cause
 the electro-mechanical door latch mechanism to activate.
 As a backup to this, the door position sensor will detect if the door has
 been opened without the electronic authorisation being issued.
 If this happens, an alarm will sound in the lock control unit and at the
 PC; this can be overridden from the PC side.
\layout Subsubsection

Conclusions from Hardware Prototype
\layout Standard

Having constructed a prototype of the hardware required to implement the
 design, various design issues have been raised.
 The use of an RS232 serial link to transport the video, audio and control
 data was found to be insufficient for a the feature set which was specified;
 a finalised design would perform much faster if a faster communications
 link was used.
 The camera used is also inherently slow, although this is partly a software
 issue.
 A further point worth making is that there is little benefit in transmitting
 audio and video as digital signals; using separate analogue cables alongside
 the digital control cable would improve the audio and video performance
 significantly.
 The natural conclusion to this idea is to make the remote entry controller
 a completely separate unit, with no PC involved in the system.
 Although this takes the design far away from the initial concept, it would
 make the system more robust and less reliant on existing hardware's performance
 levels.
\layout Standard

The prototype door control unit consists of a Motorola development board
 with an interface attached to the bus.
 Clearly, the final hardware unit would not be based on this development
 system, but instead would be a subset or redesign of it.
 To retain the same functionality, with enhanced performance, would require
 a slightly more powerful system with significantly greater bandwidth.
 One possible configuration to achieve this would be an embedded i486 controller
, with at least 8MB of RAM, with 10Mbps Ethernet for data transfer.
 An operating system would be recommended, adapted to the hardware e.g.
 Linux or FreeBSD.
\layout Standard

Alternatively, with audio and video remaining as analogue systems, the hardware
 requirements would be significantly lowered.
 Possible solutions would include a low-cost processor such as the Zilog
 Z80, or an embedded ASIC which would provide a complete system on a single
 chip.
\layout Standard

A marketable system would require the external components (keypad, iButton
 reader, doorbell button, camera, and intercom facilities) to be specified
 in a durable form, suitable for outdoor use and able to withstand tampering
 and vandalism.
 Existing products in this market have shown that this is possible for all
 components except the iButton reader.
 However, there is no technical reason why this cannot be manufactured in
 toughened form; it consists of nothing more complicated than a pair of
 electrical contacts.
 One possibility is to integrate the iButton reader into an existing device,
 such as a door handle.
\layout Standard


\begin_inset Figure size 198 141
file ../web/images/door3.ps
width 1 7
height 1 5
flags 11

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

To produce a high specification hardware system, for the intended market,
 would involve relatively low volume manufacturing.
 Our estimates of likely demand, based on a market of 20,000 schools and
 5,000 hospitals, range from 2,000 units to 10,000 units.
 Our cost breakdowns are based on information from a company manufacturing
 products of a similar level of technology and supplying similar volumes
\begin_float footnote 
\layout Standard

Zonal Retail Data Systems, Edinburgh
\end_float 
.
 Given this, the cost breakdown is as follows:
\layout Itemize

i486 embedded system and support components --- £100 
\layout Itemize

toughened keypad and iButton input devices --- £30
\layout Itemize

toughened black and white camera and intercom devices --- £60 
\layout Itemize

(optional) sound card and network card for PC --- £50
\layout Itemize

(variable) 100 iButton keys --- £100
\layout Itemize

enclosures, cables, miscellaneous items --- £50
\layout Itemize

Printed circuit board --- £20
\layout Itemize

packaging, distribution --- £ 40
\layout Standard

Therefore, the estimated cost per unit is £360, although this is only an
 approximate costing.
 This does not include the cost of the 100 iButtons, as this depends on
 the number required by the buyer.
 Obviously, the retail price would be above this, and would be determined
 by the level of competition in the market.
 We estimate that the hardware would require around 6 months development
 to bring it to a marketable state, given that the design is relatively
 simple and the technologies fairly mature.
 
\layout Standard

Labour costs involved in this would be broken down into costs of hardware
 development, labour for manufacture and costs of an installation engineer.
 Given a 6 month development period, and an electronic engineer paid at
 £20,000 p.a., we would cost the product development at a minimum of £10,000.
 This does not include the costs of equipment, which would cover PCs, logic
 analysers, oscilloscopes, prototyping equipment, and premises.
 Again, this would be a substantial investment, although DDDS may already
 have many of these facilities.
 Manufacturing costs are costed assuming a wage rate of £10/hour, but the
 actual cost depends on the complexity of the final design and therefore
 the cost can only be a very rough estimate.
 
\layout Subsection

The proposed software
\layout Standard

The software should be user-friendly, and simple to use.
 It must not confront the user with a bewildering array of options just
 to open a door.
 It was decided that, to make the system a bit more robust, that there should
 be relatively little indispensable communication between the Motorola board
 and the PC during normal operation, and that the only information that
 is actually required is that video data be sent so that a user-interface
 running on the PC would be able to display a recent image of the doorway.
 The automatic operation portion of the system runs exclusively on the board
 and doesn't require any intervention from the PC.
 The only reason that the PC needs to be used for the automatic entry system
 is for maintenance of the user database, which is downloaded onto the board
 whenever the latter is initialised or the main database on the PC is updated.
 
\layout Standard

The software is the primary focus for introducing the `value-added' components
 that would make a system such as this worthwhile and more marketable.
 For example, the Motorola board could keep a log of the iButtons which
 are used; this could then be downloaded onto the PC and stored for security
 purposes.
 If the PC is on, the main database could be used to store an image of the
 iButton's holder, so that when the board is used to open the door, an operator
 at the PC could see a picture of the person who should be at the door.
 If the person using the iButton does not match the stored picture, the
 operator could intervene.
\layout Standard

Another idea would be to allow visitors to leave voicemail messages on the
 system, if they came to the door but there was no one there to let them
 in.
 This could be extended to include a still image or a short video sequence
 of the person at the door.
\layout Standard

For added security, the PC could be left on and set to save the video sequence
 to disc.
 This would give a CCTV-like functionality to the package.
\layout Standard

The main reason for developing a system such as this would be to make full
 use of the flexibility of the PC software; once the basic functionality
 of door control and audio/video data transmission has been created, much
 greater functionality can be added at little extra cost.
 The source code could even be sold as part of the system, so that the more
 adventurous owner of the package could extend it themselves; although the
 target market may not lend itself to this approach.
 This purpose may better be served by adding an external programming port
 into the software, so that the main system maintains integrity, but the
 end-user can extend its functionality.
 For example, hooks in our database system could allow the user to create
 a database of their own that was more tailored to their own requirements;
 the system provides the basic mechanism for identifying people but then
 the owner can add extra services such as voicemail retrieval.
 This would also allow for further development and sales by DDDS as they
 could then sell extension packages for the system designed to increase
 functionality.
\layout Standard

Another useful feature would be remote administration.
 This could be achieved for instance by replacing the client software with
 a custom-built web server
\layout Subsubsection

Conclusions from Software Prototype
\layout Standard

Ideally, we would probably want to use a more powerful processor board than
 the IDP and use a `proper' operating system rather than our state machine
 architecture.
 Having said that, the state machine gave us a simple yet robust mechanism
 of gluing the separate functionalities of the system together.
 This was proven by the remarkable simplicity with which the system went
 together in the end.
 Apart from a few inevitable bugs with the coordination with the PC, where
 incorrect assumptions had been made with respect to the conditions on entry
 to the states, the integration process was relatively painless.
\layout Standard

It would be feasible that a videophone-style system could be created given
 more time and a faster processor and communication link, since the audio
 software is nearly working --- we have shown it to be possible in one direction
 --- and the video speed is essentially limited by the speed of the camera
 and the inefficiency of its associated drivers.
\layout Standard

The final system would probably have to be written for the MS Windows operating
 system, given that it is the most prevalent system for PCs currently on
 the market.
 Whilst Linux is certainly popular in certain IT departments, the average
 office PC for which the system is destined is likely to be running under
 Windows 3.
\emph on 
x
\emph default 
/95/NT.
\layout Standard

Using C as our programming language was motivated essentially by the tools
 available on the Motorola board and our familiarity with it.
 C++ may be better in terms of structured development; Java could also be
 used.
\layout Subsubsection

Development
\layout Standard

The system would need approximately 4 months development time, including
 testing; this is broken down as follows :
\layout Itemize

adaptation of the operating system: 800 man-hours
\layout Itemize

development of driver software: 300 man-hours.
\layout Itemize

creation of efficient, reliable audio/video codecs: 450 man-hours.
\layout Itemize

development of reliable, user-friendly front-end system: 550 man-hours.
\layout Standard

This would give a total development time of 2100 man hours.
 Given that the approximate rate of pay for contract workers at present
 is £800 per week, this would give a total cost of software development
 of £42,000.
\layout Subsection

The proposed system in a wider context
\layout Standard

The benefits of using a unique, highly portable key device to operate the
 door system can be translated to other areas with security needs.
 Potentially, the iButton system can control access to any electronic device,
 or control access via some electronic control system.
 For example, access to a photocopier can easily and cheaply controlled
 using the same iButton that allows access to a building.
 It can be used to control access to computers, and the data held within
 them, which of particular importance in a hospital environment.
 
\layout Standard

A further benefit of such a widespread use of iButton tags is that, using
 a central database of request actions, personnel can be tracked through
 buildings and located relatively easily.
 In a hospital environment, this is particularly useful, and would complement
 the existing use of pagers.
 In schools, iButton technology can be extended to incorporate a payment
 system for school meals, and could also form the basis of an electronic
 attendance register.
 The real benefit of an electronic key such as this is that it minimises
 the number of PIN numbers, keys and magnetic cards that have to be carried
 around; one key covers a multitude of uses.
\layout Standard

In the interviews with representatives from schools, a common theme was
 reliability; in particular, potential buyers were keen to know the expected
 lifespan of the product.
 For iButton devices, manufacturer's data indicates the expected lifespan
 at 10 years.
 This is well in excess of the typical lifespan of magnetic card devices,
 which is usually around 2 years.
 For the remainder of the lock control hardware, the lifespan depends on
 the environment in which it is installed.
 The external hardware, consisting of the iButton reader, the doorbell button
 and the keypad, is mechanically and electronically simple, and provided
 ruggedised versions are used, they should outlast the iButton devices.
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Operation of Final Product
\layout Subsection

The System
\layout Standard

Each entry point to the building would either have the full unit, or a unit
 with no camera.
 The main entrance would be covered by the full unit.
 All iButton owners would be able to enter through any control point.
 All visitors would only be allowed to enter through the main entrance.
 Visitors have to ring the buzzer to request entry.
 Communication can then take place to determine the visitor's identity.
 iButtons should be given to all the users of the building and anyone else
 who is authorised to enter unsupervised.
 In a school environment, this could include local groups, so that parts
 of the school could be used by community groups (e.g.
 Scouts, sports clubs).
 The holders of the mechanical key can be determined by the security policy
 for the building, but ideally should only be held by senior staff or the
 building security unit.
 
\layout Subsection

The Users
\layout Standard

Each user will have different demands on the times they will need to use
 the system:
\layout Itemize

Staff will need access at any time
\layout Itemize

In hospitals, staff need instant access in emergencies
\layout Itemize

Cleaners may not start until the end of the day
\layout Itemize

In schools, pupils should not be able to gain access outside school time
\layout Itemize

Visitors should only be able to enter through designated control points
\layout Standard

The system will be configurable, so that each user group can be given different
 access rights.
 
\layout Subsection

The System Manager 
\layout Standard

The system manager will have be able to make changes to the database to
 control access times and security levels.
 One example of this is the configurability required for schools; pupils
 generally need open access in the beginning and end of the day, with the
 intercom facility outwith this.
 Staff need controlled, automatic access at any time.
 Cleaners need access outwith normal hours.
 All of this is configurable using the database control.
\layout Standard

The system manager should be the only one able to access the main computer;
 this can be accomplished by using iButton technology for controlling access
 to the PC.
 Information can be transferred between the iButton and a PC with a momentary
 contact using a `Blue Dot' receptor.
 The `Blue Dot' sticks to any convenient spot on the front of a PC and is
 cabled to the serial or parallel port in the back.
 The information downloaded would be a unique password to access the database.
 If the system manager is the only one with the iButton, he will be the
 only one who can access the database.
\layout Subsection

Operation under Specific Conditions
\layout Subsubsection

System operation during a fire alarm
\layout Standard

In the event of a fire the system will not affect normal fire procedures.
 Each door can be manually opened from the inside to aid escape.
 By connecting the door system into the fire alarm system, it is possible
 to automatically unlock the door.
\layout Subsubsection

Power failure
\layout Standard

When then the system stops working the premises will be unaffected as the
 backup mechanical operation of the lock will allow it to have the same
 security level as at present.
 Additionally, exit is still possible, again by using the mechanical exit
 mechanism.
 The electromagnetic latch mechanism can be specified as defaulting to the
 open state, so that total power failure does not lock people in or out.
\layout Subsubsection

Partial system failure
\layout Standard

With the failure of part of the system, the redundancy in the design should
 allow the rest of the system to remain operational.
 If the remote PC is not operating, the door control unit has enough local
 processing power to keep the automatic mode of operation running.
 Conversely, failure of part of the automatic system, for example the keypad
 or iButton, does not affect the operation of the manual (intercom and video)
 mode.
\layout Subsubsection

Environmental hazards to iButtons
\layout Standard

Manufacturer's data suggests that each iButton has a lifetime in excess
 of 10 years.
 They are electrically and mechanically very simple and highly durable,
 being manufactured from stainless steel.
 The only requirement to read them is momentary electrical contact between
 two separate metal surfaces.
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Competitors
\layout Standard

There are a great number of companies working in the field of security systems.
 Most of these sell products that are modular; if you want access control
 you buy one part, if you need video as well then you add on an another
 component.
 A minority of companies have designed specialised systems for residential
 or small businesses, and only one or two have decided to target a specific
 market.
\layout Subsection

School Security and Related Products
\layout Subsubsection

ECr Concepts
\layout Standard

ECr Concepts in Merthyr Tydfil plan to introduce a new credit-card style
 pass system to primary and secondary schools.
 By logging data on a computer, it will monitor everything from attendance
 to what children eat for lunch.
 Parents can pay for school meals in advance and this will be recorded on
 a computer.
 When a child goes for a meal, the card is swiped and their picture appears
 on the computer for identification.
 The order is also recorded.
\layout Standard

Parents can ask for a weekly read-out of meals eaten and obtain a breakdown
 of their fat, carbohydrate and protein content to ensure a healthy, balanced
 diet.
 The card will incorporate an entry function.
 It can be used to enter the school and selected controlled areas.
 As well as keeping out intruders, staff will be able to monitor attendance
 and record daily movements in the school.
\layout Standard

A local councillor stated: 
\layout Quote


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

It sounds a great idea for security, and paying for services in schools.
 The card will not only ensure that unauthorised access is not allowed at
 school but can cover everyday things like ensuring children have their
 school meals.

\emph on 
 
\emph default 
I can envisage a day in the not too distant future when every schoolchild
 in Britain will have one of these cards to use in their schools."
\layout Subsection

Specialised Security Systems
\layout Subsubsection

CEM Security Systems
\layout Standard

CEM Security Systems designs and manufactures products for a highly specialised
 market, namely airport security.
 They have seen a specific gap in the market and designed their product
 accordingly.
 
\layout Standard

Since installing their first system at Belfast International Airport in
 1987, CEM has supplied their Airport 2000 system to many of the major UK
 airports including Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted, Glasgow, Manchester, East
 Midlands, Luton and Edinburgh.
 CEM have also installed similar systems in airports around the world.
 
\layout Standard

Each airport in the United Kingdom has differing security needs.
 However, all use the Airport 2000 Visual Imaging Pass Production System
 (VIPPS) in one manner or another.
 VIPPS captures, compresses, stores and retrieves graphical and textual
 data such as images, logos and signatures.
 
\layout Standard

Their chairman states:
\layout Quote

"VIPPS allows the airport to add graphical and textual information to the
 database, capture images from live or still cameras and photographs, retrieve
 and update previously entered data, write data to various card technologies
 and define badge layouts."
\layout Subsection

Security using iButton technology
\layout Subsubsection

Seadan Security & Electronics
\layout Standard

Seadan Security & Electronics offers the EL1200 Access System for physical
 access control of medium-size offices and buildings, or areas within buildings.
 The EL1200 system can store information for up to 1,500 individuals permitted
 to access a building.
 
\layout Standard

To gain entrance to a building secured with the EL1200 Access System, an
 employee touches his or her iButton-based key ring or token to an iButton
 reader mounted by the door, then enters their Personal Identification Number
 (PIN).
 The system compares the data read from the iButton and PIN number to the
 system's database, then unlocks the door if the data is verified as correct.
 An entry log is maintained by the EL1200 showing all persons who entered
 by a specific door, and what date and time they entered.
 
\layout Standard

The system allows for 10 access time zones or categories, allowing the system
 to compensate for a company's holiday schedule.
 The iButton reader unit has 12 keys and 4 display characters for simple
 operation and programming.
 Output point can be configured as a door open alarm output, timer-driven
 output, or sensor alarm output Standard software packages are available.
 
\layout Standard

The EL1200 is equipped with a standard interface for network operation,
 which ultimately connecting the units to a PC for centralised monitoring
 and control.
 
\layout Subsubsection

Cansec Systems Ltd.
 
\layout Standard

Cansec offers two iButton access readers for use with Cansec- and OEM-manufactur
ed access control systems, and the associated TAS100 Data Management Software
 package supports up to 1,000 users and four reader groups for either the
 TAS100 or the RT100.
 
\layout Standard

TAS100 Touch Access Stand-Alone System is a self-contained, programmable
 access control system.
 It is simple to install and operate, requiring no communications wires
 for use.
 The system includes easy-to-use programming software, and access keys are
 programmed with a read/write iButton key.
 The reader features rugged metal construction and bi-colour LED status.
 An alarm alerts users to someone attempting or achieving access to a building
 or room.
 Lights and an alert provide users with both visual and audible signals
 of access being granted or denied.
 The face plate and stainless steel read head are vandal-resistant and suitable
 for both indoor and outdoor use.
 While in use, the last 64 access granted messages can be retrieved from
 the reader with an audit key.
\layout Subsection

General Security Companies
\layout Subsubsection

Gyr security 
\layout Standard

Gyr market an advanced security management system specifically designed
 to assist professional facilities and security managers by providing a
 single screen solution.
 The manufacturers claim it to be the ideal tool for building access, parking
 access and CCTV control at single or multiple locations.
\layout Subsubsection

PAC access control
\layout Standard

PAC for Windows Residential is a PC based housing security system running
 under Microsoft Windows.
 The system has been designed for single and multi-block estates with up
 to 30,640 doors and any number of users.
\layout Standard

PAC for Windows Residential offers a wide range of building management functions
 which include: monitoring and controlling security cameras; linking to
 paging systems for mobile personnel and monitoring fire doors and lift
 doors to check whether they have been left open.
\layout Standard

Tenants are issued with PAC proximity keys, three per flat, colour coded
 for easy recognition.
 Local authority staff carry PAC proximity ID cards which include a photograph
 for identification purposes.
\layout Standard

At the Housing Office, PAC readers are fitted to external doors, to restrict
 access to the building, and system administration is carried out at a central
 PC.
 Additional PCs are located with the concierge of each of the residential
 blocks for monitoring alarms and system events, and to allow guards manual
 control of doors and car park barriers.
\layout Standard

Ancillary equipment, including panic buttons, fire exits, ventilation and
 heating equipment in the main building are monitored using PAC Alarm Event
 Managers.
 Concierge and maintenance staff are alerted to problems via pagers.
 Car park lighting is time-controlled via the PAC Alarm Event Manager.
\layout Standard

Elevator control is used in each of the residential blocks to restrict access
 by tenants to different floors of the main building.
\layout Subsection

Conclusion
\layout Standard

There are only a couple of companies working in the field of iButton building
 access control, none of which have identified a niche market or offer audio
 visual communication.
 
\layout Standard

Our product is unique in that it is supplying a state of the art system
 that will meet the needs of our market.
 Like Cemsys we have identified a specific need and therefore we should
 be able to reap the dividend.
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Bibliography and acknowledgements
\layout Subsection

Bibliography
\layout Standard


\emph on 
Building Security: Are You Overlooking Something?
\emph default 
 by Robert Hager, IDenticard Systems, Inc.
 
\layout Standard

Electronic Telegraph, www.telegraph.co.uk
\layout Standard

CEM Systems NA, Inc, www.cemsys-na.com
\layout Standard

PAC International Ltd, www.pac.co.uk 
\layout Standard

Seadan Security & Electronics, www.ibutton.com/Connections/Catalogs/seadan.html
\layout Subsection

Acknowledgements
\layout Standard

Thanks to:
\layout Itemize

The Royal Victoria Hospital
\layout Itemize

The Victoria Hospital
\layout Itemize

The Queen Margaret Hospital
\layout Itemize

Tippethill Hospital
\layout Itemize

Our Lady of Lourdes RC Primary
\layout Itemize

North Queensferry Primary
\layout Itemize

Swinton Primary
\layout Itemize

Firhill High
\layout Itemize

Galashiels Academy
\layout Itemize

Inverkeithing High
\layout Itemize

Mr N MacLeod
\layout Itemize

Mr B Liddle
\layout Itemize

Mr A Morrison
\the_end
