#This file was created by <sxjc> Thu May 14 18:51:49 1998
#LyX 0.12 (C) 1995-1998 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Management Report 
\layout Author

System Design Group Seven
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 128 125
file ../web/images/EUcrest-official-noborder.ps
flags 11

\end_inset 


\layout Standard
\pagebreak_top 

\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \printindex

\end_inset 


\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
Introduction
\layout Standard

This report outlines the management issues and policies which were raised
 during the execution of the CS3 System Design group practical.
 It explains how the project was planned, and how the tasks were allocated
 to the members of the group.
 It also concludes the project with an evaluation of the relative contribution
 and effort made by each member of the group.
\layout Section

Allocation of Tasks
\layout Subsection

Initial Allocation
\layout Standard

From the start of the project, it was decided that the tasks involved in
 carrying out the exercise should be divided into three broad categories;
 these were defined as software, hardware and documentation.
 The software category covered all software tasks, from writing the low-level
 routines, up to the front-end system and graphical user interface (GUI).
 The hardware category was defined as the design and construction of the
 prototype hardware and auxilliary components.
 It was recognised that, as our group did not have an electrical engineering
 student, we would need to devote extra resources to the hardware area.
 Finally, the documentation category covered the market research and feasibility
 report, as well as the writing of the design specifications in consultation
 with software and hardware, and the keeping of minutes of all the meetings.
 
\layout Subsubsection

General Task Allocations
\layout Standard

Before the start of the project, we made an assessment of each of our abilities,
 strengths and weaknesses.
 It was immediately apparent that Stephen Kitt was best suited to software,
 while the other strong programmers were identified as Ian Clarke, Edward
 Knowelden and Duncan Irvine.
 On the hardware side, it was decided that we should have atleast one person
 who had done the CS3 Computer Design course, so James Northrop was selected.
 Stephen Cook already had some hardware experience from a school project,
 and Stuart Cox had some electrical engineering knowledge gained from Physics;
 this completed the hardware team.
 Iain Todd was put in overall charge of documentation, although it was acknowled
ged that this was not ideal.
 However, we felt that by giving each member of the group responsibility
 for documenting their own software or hardware units, we could produce
 documentation of sufficient quality and quantity.
 
\layout Standard

Having made these allocations, we then subdivided the tasks so that each
 person had a clear idea of what they were required to do.
 
\layout Subsubsection

Specific Task Allocations
\layout Standard

We divided the software tasks into four areas, comprising:
\layout Itemize

Audio systems
\layout Itemize

Video systems
\layout Itemize

Serial communication systems
\layout Itemize

Database and User Interface
\layout Standard

We then allocated the four people from the software team to each of the
 four tasks.
 Duncan chose to work on the audio software, while Stephen Kitt was happy
 to work on the communications and Ian Clarke on the video system.
 Edward chose the database and user interface as his preferred area, and
 thus these tasks were allocated.
 
\layout Standard

For hardware, we split the design work into three distinct tasks:
\layout Itemize

Interfacing Logic Design
\layout Itemize

Interfacing Hardware Design
\layout Itemize

Analogue Audio Design
\layout Standard

The split was such that design work and prototyping could be done on all
 three areas at the same time and as early as possible.
 Stephen Cook elected to work on the Interfacing Hardware Design, while
 James worked on the Interfacing Logic Design and Stuart on the Analogue
 Audio Design; these allocations reflected the areas of expertise that had
 already been established.
 
\layout Standard

The remaining roles of Project Manager and Documentation were given to Stephen
 Cook and Iain Todd respectively; while Iain acknowledged his weaknesses
 with documentation, he felt that this role was more suitable than either
 software or hardware.
 Stephen Cook agreed to split his time between his managerial role and his
 tasks in hardware design.
\layout Subsection

Re-allocation of Tasks
\layout Standard

We decided that where these task allocations were judged to be unsuitable
 or not optimal, we would either reassign the task or redefine it to make
 the work more suitable to the worker.
 However, there were few instances where this was necessary.
 Around 3 weeks into the project we decided that the audio system was a
 task that required added manpower, and so Stephen Kitt and Ian Clarke spent
 part of their time working on this, alongside Duncan.
 However, in general the task allocation proved to be effective.
\layout Subsection

Goal-setting
\layout Standard

In order to steer the group's efforts in the right direction, we set a number
 of goals during the lifetime of the project.
 At each of the supervisor meetings we gave a progress report, which helped
 to clarify the rate of progress.
 A Gantt chart was used to track this progress (see end of report).
 The Gantt chart was updated every week to reflect the state of progress
 in the project.
 This chart was made available to the supervisor as well as the other members
 of the group; however, the most effective form of feedback was definitely
 the group meetings and setting of goals.
 
\layout Subsection

Management Issues during the Project
\layout Standard

In hindsight, the group agrees that there was a slight lack of specific
 management among the software group.
 It would perhaps have been better to have a software manager in addition
 to the project manager; the existing arrangement meant that management
 attention was focused more on hardware than software.
 However, the software group was sufficiently self-motivated that this was
 not a major issue; perhaps with different people it would have been more
 of a problem.
 
\layout Standard

An early management goal was to have the hardware designed, constructed
 and tested as early as possible.
 We decided to use a considerable proportion of our consultancy budget to
 do this, and as a result the hardware was designed by the end of week 2,
 and fully constructed by the middle of week 3.
 The management focus then shifted to ensuring that the software team made
 full use of this advantage, and in particular there was a push to get the
 audio system up and running, as this was felt to have stalled somewhat.
 This involved setting specific targets for those involved, and drafting
 in extra help from others in the group, as well as using some more of our
 consultancy budget.
\layout Standard

However, by the end of the project, we had produced a prototype that did
 nearly everything it was supposed to do.
 The hardware was complete, fully tested and working, while the software
 conformed to our initial design specification, and was also substantially
 complete.
 The reasons for this achievement are varied, but undoubtedly the general
 harmony amongst the group and the consistency of attendance and effort
 of all members was a major part of this.
 
\layout Section

Estimation of Individuals' Effort
\layout Standard

In estimating the relative contribution made by each group member, we have
 taken into consideration the existing abilities of each person, and tried
 to assess the actual effort made.
 This was done by asking each person for an honest self-assessment of effort,
 along with their explanation:
\layout Enumerate

Stephen Kitt - equal to others, with slightly above average for documentation
 
\layout Enumerate

Edward - equal, although time management could have been better
\layout Enumerate

Duncan - equal, since although the audio did not work completely, the effort
 involved in achieving partial audio was considerable.
\layout Enumerate

James - equal, felt that everyone had put in a good effort
\layout Enumerate

Stephen Cook - equal, with more effort during the hardware stage
\layout Enumerate

Ian Clarke - equal, video software worked on time
\layout Enumerate

Iain Todd - below equal, felt the work was less important, complicated or
 challenging
\layout Enumerate

Stuart - equal, worked productively
\layout Standard

As a group, we feel that this is a fair reflection of effort made during
 the 4 weeks of the project.
 We do not think that any one member of the group put in significantly less
 or more effort than any other, and that this balance was one which was
 ultimately beneficial to all.
\layout Standard

If we were faced with doing the whole project again, we would make very
 few changes to the allocation of tasks and people.
 Aside from the issue of having a separate software manager, as mentioned
 earlier, the way we divided up the project was generally felt to have been
 a success.
\layout Section

Minutes of the Group Meetings
\layout Subsection

April 21 (11am - 12am) 
\layout Standard

In our initial meeting it was decided to concentrate on accumulating ideas
 for the product and the group.
 We had to decide on the roles each person would be taking and how we would
 begin to tackle the design specification.
 Each person stated their preferred interests and the group was split up
 accordingly
\layout Itemize

Ian Clarke (Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence) Software 
\layout Itemize

Stephen Cook (Computer Science and Management) Group coordinator and hardware
\layout Itemize

Stuart Cox (Computer Science and Physics) Hardware
\layout Itemize

Duncan Irvine (Computer Science) Software
\layout Itemize

Stephen Kitt (Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence) Software
\layout Itemize

Edward Knowelden (Computer Science and and Artificial Intelligence) Software
\layout Itemize

James Northrop (Computer Science) Hardware 
\layout Itemize

Iain Todd (Computer Science) Feasibility study and documentation
\layout Itemize

Gordon Brebner Group Supervisor
\layout Standard

This enabled us to have three groups each working on specific parts of the
 project.
 The three groups will meet up with the group supervisor three times a week.
 Each group will conduct there own meetings when ever that may may be appropriat
e.
 Each of the three groups will have to keep in daily contact with each other,
 so that their efforts can be coordinated towards one goal.
\layout Standard

We drew up a time chart for the next four weeks, duly noting the three Deadlines
 that were imposed on us, and adding our own deadlines.
 These deadlines included when the design should be finalized, the deadline
 for hardware and the presentation.
 This chart will be amended as the project progresses, and our goals became
 clearer.
 
\noun on 
<see appendix 1> 
\layout Subsection

General Ideas
\layout Standard

Our brainstorming produced specific ideas for the different areas of the
 practical.
\layout Subsubsection

Security
\layout Standard

Swipe cards would be cheap and simple to implement.
 They also seem to be the favored mechanism for security eg the North Machine
 Halls, The AI department.
 Dallas rings are as portable as swipe cards, but we have little information
 about them.
 Smart cards would allow us to provide information on the cards, but we
 are unsure about the cost.
 We would also need to decide wether a backup of a PIN number would be required
 by each method
\layout Subsubsection

Special Features
\layout Standard

Features such as voice, face or iris recognition were considered but there
 is a worry over the likelihood of success.
 We are unsure that any of these methods have been perfected.
 If we were to implement one of these features we would need to make sure
 we had a contignancy plan.
\layout Subsubsection

Market
\layout Standard

The initial specification states that the system will be designed as a replaceme
nt for the standard door-entry system of residential flats.
 We would need to investigate wether residents would accept this product
 and if they didn't we would investigate new markets.
\layout Subsection

Goals
\layout Standard

The task of investigating these ideas was split up between the group.
 We set a deadline of Thursday Wednesday April 22 to make decisions on our
 market and our features.
 The features of the unit will be dependent on the market that we aim for.
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
April 22 (10am - 11am)
\layout Subsection

Research Results
\layout Subsubsection

Security 
\layout Standard

Smart cards are expensive but there is an option of making our own using
 BT phone cards.
 The principle is quite simple but the implementation may not be.
 We can not buy smart cards as they are expensive, the card writer alone
 would cost more than our budget.
 Dallas rings are not the cheapest option, but we would probably be the
 only group using them.
\layout Subsubsection

Features 
\layout Standard

Examining the area of image recognition as a security mechanism; each user
 would be given a card with a barcode on it.
 The user would show this to the camera (which would recognize the code)
 and then type in a PIN, if the pin and code were correct then they would
 gain entry.We consider the system to be feasible, the algorithm to recognize
 the image is quite simple.
 Advantageously the cost would be low, the image would only be printed onto
 a piece of laminate, no special equipment would have to be bought.
 The limitation to this method is that we have not been able to test the
 camera to check the quality of the image.
 The image will need to be quite clear to make out the bar-code.
\layout Subsubsection

Market
\layout Standard

Our initial research shows apathy from most residents, the standard response
 to the idea is why should they spend money on a new system when they allready
 have one that meets all their needs.
 It was decided that we should target the commercial buyer.
 We had the specific idea of targeting school security.
 In light of Dunblane there should be an increased market for low cost security.
\layout Subsection

Reports
\layout Standard

The hardware group were looking into the chips on the board and the connection
 methods.
 They will need time to get familiarized with the board and the chips involved.
\layout Standard

It was suggested by supervisor that we were expanding a lot of time on the
 technical details of the product while neglecting some basic ideas.
 How would the system cope with general situations; switching it off, the
 machine been dropped and the PC not been switched on.
 
\layout Subsubsection

Deadlines
\layout Standard

Documentation would start on the Design Specification today, so that we
 could meet our first Deadline.
 We would also make a final system design decision at a meeting later in
 the day.
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
April 22 (4pm - 5pm)
\layout Subsection

Final Research Results
\layout Standard

We have fully Investigated Dallas rings, smart cards and swipe cards.
 Dallas rings cost £2 each, cheaper when bought in bulk.
 The reader is £5.
 The smart card will not be a good option as there is no supplier of blank
 cards.
 There is only a small amount of literature available, finding information
 about the cards is proving difficult.
 If we were to use this method we would be carrying out a lot of work into
 an area were we may get little help.
 Swipe cards readers cost £25 but the cards themselves only have a lifespan
 of one to two years.
 We have sent away for more data about the rings and the swipe cards.
 The principal problem with the rings are that the readers is not vandal
 proof.
 This would not be a great problem as it is a protype we are designing.
 The problem with swipe cards is that the programmer is too expensive.
\layout Standard

Continuing our investigation into image recognition, we think the good points
 would be: 
\layout Itemize

It looks impressive, 
\layout Itemize

It would be very convenient to use 
\layout Itemize

It would be cheap.
 
\layout Standard

The downside is that we would be unable to test it until near the end of
 the project.
 We would have to complete most of the software and the hardware without
 the guarantee of a working product.
 Until we get a picture from the Quick-Cam then we will not know wether
 it is feasible.
 
\layout Subsection*

Reports
\layout Subsection

Hardware
\layout Standard

The Hardware team have finished their investigation into the chips and the
 board.
 They have booked consultation time to help them start up, and their initial
 thought is that the hardware is going to be more difficult than first thought.
 
\layout Subsection

Software
\layout Standard

The software team has checked out the audio capabilities on the Linux machine
 and it seems as if it will operate correctly.
 The video capabilities seems to be about one frame per second.
 They will continue to examine the serial connection between the Motorola
 board and the PC.
\layout Subsection

Documentation
\layout Standard

No company deals directly in school security.
 Most firms try to make there product available to any market that desires
 access control.
 The case of babies been snatched form maternity wards highlights the needs
 of hospitals for security.
\layout Subsection

Decisions
\layout Standard

We made the decision to use Dallas Rings.
 We will not fully rule out image recognition until we get the camera operating.
 Our target market will be public institutions such as schools and hospitals.
\layout Subsection

Plan
\layout Standard

Documentation will complete the Requirement spec for 12pm April 23.
 Then it can be corrected and updated by the rest of the group.
 Hardware use some consultation time and software will have an early morning
 meeting to allocate tasks amongst themselves.
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
April 24 (10.30pm - 11pm)
\layout Subsection*

Reports
\layout Standard

The camera was set up this morning and the quality of the picture is not
 clear enough to continue with image recognition.
 We tested holding up a card with a barcode to the camera and it was very
 unclear the gaps between the black and the white bands.
 We could now dedicate our time fully to the Dallas Rings.
\layout Subsection

Hardware 
\layout Standard

They have looked at the capabilities of the chips and have started work
 on timing diagrams.
 Once they have the design they should have no problems with the construction.
 They aim to have the hardware up and running by the start of the third
 week.
 To achieve this they will order some chips immediately so that they will
 not be held back later in the project.
\layout Subsection

Software 
\layout Standard

They are considering the software requirements.
 The software will be split into modules and consideration will have to
 be given about how the two main areas will connect.
 The software team have split up to consider their individual assignments
 but they hope to have something working by Tuesday.
 They have considered all the features they wish to include (see Design
 Specification)
\layout Subsection

Documentation 
\layout Standard

Has to meet the deadline of 4.30 on April 23.
 Will check the documentation with Stuart Anderson as soon as possible,
 to correct the structure and contents.
 Our market research suggests that schools should be our target market.
 We have contacted schools to gauge their opinion on the unit, and we hope
 to get the results of our residents survey over the weekend.
 
\layout Standard

In light of the Cullen inquiry the security should be should be good enough
 to allay parents worries but not be to restrictive to an environment that
 should be welcoming.
 The system will be tailored towards their needs and will have to be configurabl
e.
 Different schools will have competing needs.
 The research indicates a market with the NHS; especially maternity wards
 which increasingly need a low level of security and identification.
 The advantage of the Dallas ring over swipe cards is that they will not
 be wiped in a highly magnetized environment such as a hospital.
\layout Subsection

Plan
\layout Standard

To set a clear deadline for the Hardware group, as the software has a limited
 dependency on their finished project.
 If the worst comes to the worst they should investigate buying the design.
 Any any other details are covered by the time chart.
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
April 27 (10.30am - 11am) 
\layout Subsection*

Reports
\layout Subsection

Hardware
\layout Standard

It is not possible to buy the hardware design but you can get a good idea
 on how to go about it by using up consultation time.
 They hope to start construction by the end of the week and have something
 working for Monday.
 They will order some of the hardware today.
\layout Subsection

Software
\layout Standard

The video is almost complete but it needs to run faster.
 They consider progress to be good.
 The Audio specs has now being decided and they are investigating the interface
 to see how it will multi-task.
 They have an idea of using the SSCOP code for the serial link, but this
 may be overcomplicating the situation.
\layout Subsection

Documentation
\layout Standard

Any hand-ins should have a system of proof reading.
 This should be done by a designated member of the group with good English
 skills.
 Hand-ins should be written in a style that will assume no prior knowledge
 of the subject.
 The feasibility study is still on going.
\layout Subsection

Plan
\layout Standard

The Software team will continue to work on the serial cable and should consider
 booking consultation time if they have any trouble with it.
 Programming the video software continues and they will delegate other tasks
 amongst themselves.
 The hardware team are making progress, and have ordered the parts.
 Documentation should start on the feasibility study and there should be
 corrections made to the design specification
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
April 29 (3pm - 4pm)
\layout Subsection*

Reports
\layout Subsection

Hardware
\layout Standard

They have ordered and received some of the parts, but they will need to
 get a few others.
 They are nearly ready to start construction; Tim Hopkins has checked their
 design and seems to have no problem with it.
 They have started some rudimentary testing.
 For the Feasibility study it should be noted that two of the chips we are
 using are obsolete.
\layout Subsection

Software
\layout Standard

There is a snag with the interface, we may not be able to get the audio
 and video working together.
 The camera will record pictures until the buzzer sounds and then only the
 audio will be active.
 The user could then check the previous video frames for a clear picture.
 We should aim to have the simpler design running before we expand it.
 It is noted that this design does not meet our minimum spec.
\layout Standard

The video compression could run at one frame per second.
 Once all the hardware is finished we we will be able to test the client
 side software.
 The audio has has a choice of two different standards one of which might
 be to hardware intensive to proceed with.
\layout Subsection

Documentation
\layout Standard

Has made contact with our target groups to gauge a response to our system.
 Continues to work on the Feasibility study.
 Should contact the Royal Infirmary or the Scottish Schools Research Center.
 A phone can be obtained from the secretaries office.
\layout Subsection

Plan
\layout Standard

See time chart
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
April 30 (3am - 4am) 
\layout Subsection*

Reports
\layout Subsection

Hardware
\layout Standard

They have completed most of the design.
 The audio section is proving problematic; it is likely that the hand-in
 tommorow will contain a faulty design.
 They hope to have finished construction by Sunday.
 Some Other Groups are just handing in block diagrams; but we will be handing
 in documents that contain as much detail as is possible.
 Comprising of a technical description, flow of data, timing diagrams etc.
\layout Subsection

Software
\layout Standard

They have designed a state diagram, and have member of the group has been
 allocated specific parts to write up and implement.
 They will write up a description, flow of data and the transitions for
 each state.
 The GUI is designed but they will need to work out how the client side
 operates.
 The audio will have something up and running by Tuesday.
 Integration of the states can only take place once all the individual states
 have been finalized.
\layout Subsection

Documentation
\layout Standard

The Feasibility study is still on going.
\layout Subsection

Plan
\layout Standard

The individual parts of the hardware and software documentation have to
 be written by 9am 1st May.
 Documentation will then put all the parts together for 10.30am.
 The document will be proof read until approximately 12am to have it completed
 for 1pm
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
May 1st (3am - 4am) 
\layout Subsection*

Reports
\layout Subsection

Hardware
\layout Standard

The hardware is theoretically correct.
 They have checked it with Tim and hope to start building it.
 The construction will take place in stages as they need to complete some
 testing of chips.
\layout Subsection

Software
\layout Standard

See the state diagram and the previous minutes.
 They have allocated 2-3 days next week for integration.
 Each state has now been documented by each individual, and the document
 is being produced.
 GB wants us to write about the functionality rather documenting all the
 code.
 Their only worries are with the Audio implementation.
 It is not known how the Motorola will cope with the code.
 Last years groups had a lot of trouble porting their code over.
 
\layout Subsection

Documentation
\layout Standard

We have contacted the SSERC and have managed to get some quotes from them.
 The document itself is nearly complete.
 It will be worked on by the Hardware and Software team to clear it of any
 inaccuracies.
 Work will now start on updating the minutes into a readable management
 report.
\layout Subsection

Plan
\layout Standard

see time chart
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
May 4th (3am - 4am)
\layout Subsection*

Reports
\layout Subsection

Hardware
\layout Standard

The hardware is looking good everything has been tested and it is just a
 matter of putting it all together.
 They have built everything apart from the audio compression.
\layout Subsection

Software
\layout Standard

Video is as far on as it can get, without the serial being implemented.
 The video may take up to a day to test once the serial is complete.
 The serial is continuing.
 Work is nearly complete on the Linux side, and it is theoretically correct
 on the Motorola side.
 The video is being integrated with the GUI.
 The audio compression algorithm is written, and is being evaluated and
 improved.
\layout Subsection

Documentation
\layout Standard

The Supervisor was surprised at the level of detail in the technical document
 but praised the hand in, stating he had confidence that we would manage
 to complete our design.
 Minor points were that the figures did not always relate to diagrams; and
 detail was sketchier in some place than others.
 It should be made clearer that the mechanical lock is a feature of the
 door and not the unit.
 We should also state more clearly how refuse entry works.
\layout Standard

The Feasibility study is still on going.
 It is now at a point were it should be handed over to somebody else, so
 they can contribute a different outlook.
 Progress should now be made on the presentation and the market research.
\layout Subsection

Plan
\layout Standard

Documentation to start on presentation.
 Towards the end of the week the hardware team will split up into software
 and documentation
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
May 7th (3am - 4am)
\layout Subsection*

Reports
\layout Subsection

Hardware
\layout Standard

Everything has been built, wired and individually tested.
 They need to test and run the system as one unit; but are hopeful of meeting
 our self imposed Friday deadline.
 In case anything goes wrong we have copies of all the chips and will be
 able to replace any broken part.
 One slight problem is that the video interferes with serial and vice versa,
 but this is being examined.
\layout Subsection

Software
\layout Standard

The database has been tested on the Motorola and seems to be working correctly.
 The testing will continue for the rest of the day.
 When we get more Dallas rings then we will be able to use correct values.
 The GUI is still in development but it shouldn't prove a problem if everything
 else is up and running.
 The serial is correct in one direction and work has started on the other
 way.
 Video has been tested with the serial and is proving slightly buggy.
 The first image transmitted is correct the rest are corrupted.
 The audio standard has been changed from ADPCM to a more simpler method.
 This comes about as ADPCM was proving to be to hardware intensive for our
 hardware.
\layout Subsection

Documentation
\layout Standard

Worked on 3D packages for the presentation, conclusion is that 3D studio
 max will have to be used.
 Has finished the management report up until present.
\layout Subsection

Plan
\layout Standard

The hardware team will be splitting up into marketing and documentation,
 one of them well liase with the software team to explain any design points.
 Everyone is confident of meeting their individual deadlines for this Friday.
 The deadline involves having a working unit to demonstrate to our group
 supervisor.
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
May 9th(3.30 pm - 4.30pm)
\layout Subsection*

Reports
\layout Subsection

Hardware 
\layout Standard

The hardware is finished, it is only in need of minor corrections.
 They have purchased a lock, latch and wood to make a door for the presentation.
 They will start work on the hardware manual and put their input into the
 feasibility study.
 Specifically issues of cost and construction.
\layout Subsection

Software 
\layout Standard

The video software is essentially finished.
 We have had the code working correctly from the Motorola to the PC.
 The database is virtually done; you can place a ring in the holder and
 it will read the correct user ID.
 They are still having problems with the audio, but they have rewritten
 some of the serial code.
 They hope to have at least the audio going from the PC to the Motorola
 over the weekend 
\layout Subsection

Documentation
\layout Standard

Finished working on the feasibility study and the management document.
 Both have been given out to two members of the group to proof check it.
 
\layout Subsection

Marketing
\layout Standard

We have now decided to make decisions about the presentations.
 We will allocate people to each depending on their desire to do it and
 their technical or marketing skills.
 We will use slides in the afternoon, as this will help us make our point
 clearly and efficiently.
 We will also be filming a short video to make fun of the other products.
 
\layout Subsection

Plan
\layout Standard

The documentation will be corrected over the weekend.
 The video will be filmed on Sunday and edited on Tuesday.
 The audio will be completed over the weekend.
 We don't plan to make any more drastic changes to the product over the
 next week; but to consolidate our position.
 
\layout Section
\pagebreak_top 
May 12th (10am - 11am)
\layout Subsection*

Reports
\layout Subsection

Hardware
\layout Standard

Finished, they have now split up to concentrate on marketing and documentation
\layout Subsection

Software
\layout Standard

The video is finished.
 The serial works and is hopefully fine in both directions.
 The only remaining problem is the audio, the sound is getting through but
 it is ending up distorted and crackly.
 From the PC to the Motorola a voice is some times audible; in the other
 direction you tend to get a sound like an alarm.
\layout Standard

We have put more people onto audio in the hope of getting a fresh outlook
 on it.
 It is unlikely to be a hardware problem as this has all being tested.
 They will book consultation time if they are still having problems with
 it tomorrow.
\layout Standard

The GUI is virtually done, the database is nearly in operation, and they
 are just working on connecting the buttons to the door.
 They are working on the essential features.
\layout Subsection

Documentation 
\layout Standard

Has handed over the feasibility and the management report for corrections.
 
\layout Subsection

Marketing 
\layout Standard

We have chosen our presentation team, we have filmed footage for a video
 and we have booked time in the hall to practice on Thursday.
 
\layout Subsection

Plan 
\layout Standard

To have as much implemented by Tuesday as possible.
 To edit the video on Tuesday morning, to have all the pieces of the presentatio
n ready for Thursday.
\the_end
