#This file was created by <skk> Fri May 15 09:19:52 1998
#LyX 0.12 (C) 1995-1998 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme palatino
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

System Design Project
\newline 
iDoor User Manual
\layout Author

Group Seven
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 128 125
file ../web/images/EUcrest-official-noborder.ps
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Standard
\pagebreak_top \pagebreak_bottom 

\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents

\end_inset 


\layout Section

Installation
\layout Standard

The iDoor door unit will have been installed by our engineers.
 Should it cease to function, please contact us rather than try anything
 yourself.
\layout Standard

The software is available as two binaries: 
\family typewriter 
midoor
\family default 
, which is the door unit control software, and 
\family typewriter 
lidoor
\family default 
, which is the user software, currently avaialble only for Linux.
\layout Section

The door unit control software
\layout Standard

In the prototype, this software has to be downloaded manually every time
 the door unit is switched on.
\layout Standard

To set up the door unit control software, please use the supplied Minicom
 terminal program, like so:
\layout LyX-Code

minicom ttyS0
\layout Standard

Ensure power is available to the door unit, and hit the Enter/Return key;
 a prompt should appear:
\layout LyX-Code

ROM68K :->
\layout Standard

Now type in
\layout LyX-Code

dc
\layout Standard

then press Control-A, Control-G, C, enter 
\family typewriter 
midoor
\family default 
, and hit Enter again.
 Minicom will proceed to download the program.
 When the prompt reappears, type
\layout LyX-Code

go 40000
\layout Standard

to start the program running.
\layout Section

The user software
\layout Subsection

The main window
\layout Standard

To start the user software, make sure the door unit is up and running, and
 type 
\family typewriter 
lidoor
\family default 
 at the command prompt.
 This will bring up the main window, shown in figure 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{Main window}

\end_inset 

, page 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \pageref{Main window}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Standard

\begin_float fig 
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 170 125
file ../guigrab1.ps
width 1 6
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Caption


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{Main window}

\end_inset 

The main window
\end_float 
\layout Standard

Four buttons are available:
\layout Itemize

Video --- this causes a frame to be completely recaptured; use it if the
 image gets corrupted somehow.
\layout Itemize

Audio control --- this brings up an audio mixer; use it to adjust the volume
 of the speaker and microphone attached to your PC.
\layout Itemize

Configuration -- this brings up a user configuration window, described in
 section, page.
\layout Itemize

Close --- this will shut the program down.
\layout Subsection

The door control window
\layout Standard

When a visitor presses the doorbell, a notification window will pop up,
 displaying the image contained in bell.xpm and playing the sound contained
 in bell.wav.
 The main window will change, as shown in figure 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{Door control}

\end_inset 

, page 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \pageref{Door control}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Standard

\begin_float fig 
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 170 134
file ../guigrab2.ps
width 1 6
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Caption


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{Door control}

\end_inset 

The door control window
\end_float 
\layout Standard

Four further buttons have appeared:
\layout Itemize

Talk --- this allows you to talk to the visitor.
\layout Itemize

Listen --- this allows you to listen to the visitor.
\layout Itemize

Unlock --- this unlocks the door, and reverts to the main window.
\layout Itemize

Refuse --- this denies entry, and reverts to the main window.
\layout Standard

Note that while you're talking or listening to the visitor, the image won't
 be updated.
 Use the Video button to update the picture; you need to use Talk and Listen
 again.
 The status bar will indicate which mode the software is currently in.
\layout Standard

Also note that the notice window will disappear when you unlock the door
 or refuse entry.
\layout Subsection

The user configuration window
\layout Standard

When you click on the Configure button, the user configuration window pops
 up (figure 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{User configuration}

\end_inset 

, page 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \pageref{User configuration}

\end_inset 

).
\layout Standard

\begin_float fig 
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 283 192
file ../db_grab.ps
width 1 10
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Caption


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{User configuration}

\end_inset 

User configuration window
\end_float 
\layout Standard

Click on a user to view their information.
 To add a user, use the Add button; Delete deletes a user; Change PIN changes
 a user's PIN; Close closes the window.
\the_end
