<html>
<head><title>Minutes from Group 1 meetings</title></head>
<body>
<font face="Lucida">
<H1>Minutes</H1>
<br><br>
<H3>Meeting held at 10am on Tuesday 21 April 1998</H3><br>
Only one absence was noted, that being Scott Conditt. IT WAS RESOLVED to
write him a nasty e-mail.
<br><br>
Appointments:
<br><br>
(1) It was unanimously decided to make the following appointments:
<br><br>
Tony Mealing to act as Company Secretary whose duties are:<br>
	(i)   To take minutes of meetings.<br>
	(ii)  To compile timetable of job allocations on web.<br>
	(iii) Cupboard Keyholder.<br>
	(iv)  Website and other documentation<br>
<br>
Matt Perry to act as Company Manager whose duties are:<br>
	(i)   Deciding job allocations<br>
	(ii)  Arranging meetings<br>
	(iii) Personnel?<br><br>

(2) IT WAS DECIDED to prepare a questionnaire to determine what the public
wants.<br>
<br>
(3) IT WAS RESOLVED to talk to DJR regarding the present NMH/SMH door
entry
system. We should also try to contact existing door entry system
suppliers.
<br><br>
(4) Matt Perry stated that he knows a hi-tech thumbprint recognition
system
designer and would talk to him to try and get free thumbprint hardware or 
tips.
<br>
(5) Different system concepts were mentioned such as:
<br>Voice Recognition system - which is, however ruled out due to the Rory
Bremners of this world being able to deceive this type of system.
<br><br>
(6) IT WAS RESOLVED to split difficult tasks into teams, NOT individuals.
<br><br>
(7) IT WAS FURTHER RESOLVED that Matt Perry and Yussuf were to be in
charge of
hardware development, Yussuf doing electrical engineering as part of his
degree. Tony Mealing and Malcolm Dodds stated that they did Computer
Design and may also be of use for hardware implementation.
<br><br>
(8) IT WAS NOTED that it was necessary to compare the existing entry
system
products for the feasibility study.
<br><br><br>

(9)A rough outline of the Specification was put forward:
<br><br>
<br>BASE SPECIFICATION:
<br>Being able to see/hear and talk to the person at the door and being
able to 'buzz' them in.
<br>User code and pin to be typed into keypad.
<br><br>
INTERMEDIATE SPECIFICATION:
<br>Tamper Prevention.
<br>Alarm and associated shut-down on tamper.
<br>Maximum (5?) incorrect codes, then the user id is invalidated.
<br><br>
LUXURY SPECIFICATION:
<br>Card swipe to avoid having to remember both user ID and PIN.

<br><br>
Next meeting: 1511 at 2.00 pm
<br></body>
</html>

<br><br><br>

<H3>Meeting held on Tues 21 April 1998 at 2.00 pm</H3>
<br>
It was noted that Scott Condit was still absent.
<br>
David Rees was present.
<br><br>
(1) Advice received from djr was to keep the product simple. We should aim
to
have everything done in two weeks time in terms of hardware and software
(This particularly applies to hardware since software development is
prevented if the hardware does not yet work.) Perhaps we could make a
model simulating the hardware.

<br><br>(2) Djr also reaffirmed that we need a timetable. The use of
Project
planning tools would be good. We need to plan activities and how they
inter-relate. The use of programming methodology concepts is recommended,
and we need to go into explicit detail saying who's doing what.<br><br>
Djr stated that the idea of a questionnaire was pointless. Market research
should entail looking at other products on the market. We need to decide
for ourselves what makes a good product.

<br><br>


(3) It would also be a good idea to assign documentation to be read by
members
of the group, noting who has read what.
<br><br>
(4) With reference to the product, djr stated that it needs to be unique.
The
following ideas were suggested:
(i) Bar code recognition using camera
<br>(ii) Thumb/face/voice recognition is too difficult considering the
timescale.
<br>(iii) Different categories of user?
<br>(iv) Visitors have to 'ring' bell while standing in front of camera.
<br>(v) We discussed entry systems that we have come across in our flats.
Perhaps we should extend the entry system for multiple flats/pc's.
<br>(vi) Newtons were bought by EU for 5 pounds each. Perhaps we could use
the LCD screens from these. Lots of data transfer would however be
required for a LCD screen at the door.
<br>(vii) Perhaps a red/green light to simulate the door being signalled
to be unlocked or not.
<br>(viii) The hardware could either be at the door or development board.
<br>(ix) Control of other things in house using Ding Dong package?<br>
<br>(5) Wire Wrapping - someone needs to practice it. 
<br>
<br>(6) Djr stated that we need to deal with the camera and microphone,
thinking about multiplexing the two.<br>
<br>
Next meeting with djr: Thursday 23 April at 2pm in 1511.<br>

<br><br><br>

<H3>Meeting held on Tues 23 April at 2.45pm in NMH</H3>
<br>
It was noted that Scott Conditt was still absent and Matt Perry would
e-mail tmh to say that we have had no contact with him apart from one
meeting last term.<br>
<br>
The purpose of this meeting was do decide on a rough specification. The
following features were agreed upon:
<br>
<font size=+1>(<a href="sysdspec.html">Click here</a> for the flow diagram
of the proposed system.)</font><br>
<br>(1) Single Entrance
<br>(2) Keypad at door on which EITHER (i) 2 digit flat id plus at least 4
digit pin by resident OR (ii) 2 Digit Flat number is typed by
visitor to 'buzz' approporiate flat.<br>
(3) Feature to add and remove pin numbers in the form of an encrypted
database.
<br>(4) Privacy option to deactivate buzzer.
<br>(5) If there is a power cut or a computer crash, the door stays
locked, but there would be a manual over-ride feature such as a key.
<br>(6) Services buzzer has user id 00.
<br>(7) You can always unlock the door from your PC without someone
buzzing beforehand.
<br>(8) The state of the door (locked or unlocked) should be determined by
means of a red/green LED.
<br>(9) Frame rate fed from the camera should be as high as possible given
the data transfer facility.
<br><br>Note that this is the realistic specification.
<br>A possible feature that could be added is barcode identification
and tamper prevention for
the luxury specification. This specification is suitable especially for
blocks of flats but could also be used for small (low security) business
applications or individual houses. This specification also assumes the
presence of a PC terminal in every flat (a realistic assumption for a few
years in the future when this product would be coming on the market).The
PC terminals would also be switched on all the time.<br>
<br>
Next meeting: Wed 22 April in NMH
<br><br><br>
<H3>Meeting held on Wed 23 April at 9.30 am in NMH</H3>
<br>
(1) It was decided to allocate tasks into different groups. First of all,
the
following split of tasks for the specification was decided on:
<br><br>(A) Security
<br>(B) PC Interface
<br>(C) Door Interface
<br>(D) Communications comprising:
<br>    (i) Door Controller
<br>    (ii) PC Controller
<br><br>
(2) Tony Mealing, Ben Lowe and Richard Smith agreed to undertake the task
of
formally specifying (A), (B) and (C) while the rest of the group were to
deal with (D).
<br><br>(3) Tony Mealing put forward the possibility of implementing the
PC
interface in Netscape after consulting Chris Cooke since this would allow
remote control of security features and also make the system more
portable. However, this was ruled out due to latency and serial port
complications. Therefore, the PC controller was to be implemented using
XWindows with a single control panel window. The specification was also
discussed for (A), (B) and (C). The
final specification that was decided upon is in the file interface.html
which is not accessible from outside the sysd1 identity.
<br><br>(4) Howard Ng outlined what the communications group required to
be output from the PC Interface which is:
<br><br>(i) UNLOCK DOOR
<br>(ii) OPEN COMMS
<br>(iii) TERMINATE COMMS
<br><br>(5) Matt Perry stated that he will compile a timetable of
activities and will pass it on to Tony to put on the web in the near
future.
<br><br>(6) The Communications group will also submit their specification
in the same format as the Interface group.
<br><br>
Next Meeting Thursday 23 April 10.00am in NMH
<br><br><br>
<H3>Meeting held in 1511 on Thursday 23 April 1998</H3>
It was noted that Scott Conditt remained absent and Ben Lowe was hung
over.
<br><br>(1) The main purpose of this meeting was to update Dr Rees on the
progress and to outline the general principles of the system. The
following implementation points were discussed:
<br>(a) Brandon thought that the maximum possible frame rate from the
camera was 4 frames/second. DJR said that he had been told that the
maximum possible frame rate is actually 1 frame every 2 seconds. Therefore
we need a good compression algorithm for video communication since there
is a makimum 38kbit frame rate. An idea put forward by Matt Perry/Malcolm
Dodds was a button to explicitly refresh the picture. DJR said that it was
obviously in the visitor's interest to stand in front of the camera
properly.
<br>(b) DJR suggested that we should start implementing a very basic
version of the system (perhaps starting with no audio/video - just the
keypad. We should get everyone working to integrate something.
<br>(c) DJR suggested that we could consider recording video continuously.
<br>(d) Brandon Lim stated that there was obviously more software work
required at the PC controller than the door controller.
<br>(e) It was agreed that it was important for Malcolm Dodds to get the
drivers to work at both ends for serial communication as soon as possible
in order that dependant aspects of the project could then be implemented.
<br>(f) DJR raised the question of the keypad. Matt Perry stated that the
keypad is clever enough to internally generate different outputs
corresponding to the key pressed. We do not have to poll separate rows. 
<br>(g) Howard Ng explained the proposed basic structure of the system to
DJR ie. How the individual drivers work together to form the whole
architecture.
<br>(h) Malcolm stated that we are missing the dmp that splits the bus
into 3 parallel ports. Matt said he will talk to Archie Howitt.
<br>(i) DJR asked who is doing the XWindows side of things. Tony Mealing
and Richard Smith stated that they were going to do this. DJR said this
can be done without waiting for other aspects of the system to be
completed.
<br>(j) DJR asked who's going to have a go at cross-compiling
(down-loading onto board). Noone was as yet. DJR said we need to get some
people onto it. <br><br>
(2) We need to give DJR a break-down of the job allocations and deadlines,
possibly included with the report due for Friday.
<br><br>
(3) It was noted that we need a general overview of the system in our
specification.
<br><br>
(4) Matt will meet DJR tomorrow at 3pm and hand in specification by 4.30.
<br><br>
(5) The meeting times for next week were set as:
<br><ul><li>Monday 11.30 am</li>
<br><li>Wednesday 2.00 pm</li>
<br><li>Friday 2.00 pm</li></ul>
All to take place in 1511.
<br><br><br><br>
<H3>Meeting in 1610 at 12.30 pm Friday 24 April</H3>
Present: Stuart Anderson (10 minutes of consultation time), Tony Mealing,
Matt Perry, Simon Brislin
<br><br>(1) The purpose of this meeting was to make sure that our
requirements specification was appropriate.
<br><br>(2) SOA suggested the possibility of a configuration interface
where there can be different security policies for different doors, eg.
Certain period of the day for the door to be open. Some doors could be
higher security than others. Some may alert security every time it is
opened. 
<br><br>(3) SOA also mentioned the possibility of integration with a fire
system determinining which doors open and which doors lock in case of a
fire. Compare to system developed for Austrian National Bank.
<br><br>(4) SOA said that our requirements specification was good and that
the more detailed low level section could be called a technical annexe
(mostly for our own benefit).
<br><br>(5) The security considerations section could be amended to be
called a security interface.
<br><br>Meeting terminated at 12.45pm
<br><br>





</body>
</html>

